13_ZeroToHero/13_02_Resources.md, before:

## Resources

### Questions and feedback

For any questions or suggestions about working with Azure Database for MySQL, send an email to the Azure Database for MySQL Team (AskAzureDBforMySQL@service.microsoft.com). Please note that this address is for general questions rather than support tickets.

In addition, consider these points of contact as appropriate:

- To contact Azure Support or fix an issue with an account, [file a ticket from the Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade/overview).
- To provide feedback or to request new features, create an entry via [UserVoice](https://feedback.azure.com/forums/597982-azure-database-for-mysql).

### Find a partner to assist in migrating

This guide can be overwhelming, but don't fret!  There are many experts in the community with a proven migration track record. [Search for a Microsoft Partner](https://www.microsoft.com/solution-providers/home) or [Microsoft MVP](https://mvp.microsoft.com/MvpSearch) to help with finding the most appropriate migration strategy.

Browse the technical forums and social groups for more detailed real-world information:

- [Microsoft Community Forum](https://docs.microsoft.com/answers/topics/azure-database-mysql.html)
- [StackOverflow for Azure MySQL](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/azure-database-mysql)
- [Azure Facebook Group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/MsftAzure)
- [LinkedIn Azure Group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/2733961/)
- [LinkedIn Azure Developers Group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/1731317/)

Commit message:

Updates based on Shreya's comments today.

13_ZeroToHero/13_02_Resources.md, after:

## Resources

### Call to Action

[Review homepage](https://aka.ms/mysql)
[Documentation](http://aka.ms/mysqldocs)
[Get started for free with an Azure free account!](https://azure.microft.com/free/mysql)
[Tutorial](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-deploy-on-azure-free-account)
[Azure Pricing Calculator, TCO Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing)
[Migrate your workloads to Azure DB for MySQL](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/migrate)

### Stay tuned for latest updates and announcements

[What’s new in Flexible Server?](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/whats-new)
[Tech Community Blog](https://aka.ms/azure-db-mysql-blog)

### Follow Azure Database for MySQL on 

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/AzureDBMySQL)
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/azure-database-for-mysql/)
Email us at AskAzureDBforMySQL@service.microsoft.com  

### Find a partner to assist in migrating

This guide can be overwhelming, but don't fret!  There are many experts in the community with a proven migration track record. [Search for a Microsoft Partner](https://www.microsoft.com/solution-providers/home) or [Microsoft MVP](https://mvp.microsoft.com/MvpSearch) to help with finding the most appropriate migration strategy.

Browse the technical forums and social groups for more detailed real-world information:

- [Microsoft Community Forum](https://docs.microsoft.com/answers/topics/azure-database-mysql.html)
- [StackOverflow for Azure MySQL](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/azure-database-mysql)
- [Azure Facebook Group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/MsftAzure)
- [LinkedIn Azure Group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/2733961/)
- [LinkedIn Azure Developers Group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/1731317/)
