# 01 / Azure MySQL Developer Guide

Welcome to THE comprehensive guide to developing [MySQL]-based
applications on [Microsoft Azure]! Whether creating a production
application or improving an existing enterprise system, this guide will
take developers and architects through the fundamentals of MySQL
application development to more advanced architecture and design. From
beginning to end, it is a content journey designed to help ensure
current or future MySQL systems are performing at their best even as
their usage grows and expands.

![The diagram shows the progression of development evolution in the
guide.]

The topics and flow contained in this guide cover the advantages of
migrating to or leveraging various simple to use, valuable Azure cloud
services in MySQL architectures. Be prepared to learn how easy and quick
it is to create applications backed by [Azure Database for MySQL]. In
addition to building customized services, developers will also be able
to leverage the vast number of value-add services available in the
[Azure Marketplace]. Throughout this developer journey, strive to
leverage the vast number of resources presented rather than going at it
alone!

Because every company and project is unique, this guide provides
insightful service descriptions and tool comparisons to allow the reader
to make choices that fit their environment, system, and budget needs.
Proven industry architecture examples provide best practice jumpstarts
allowing for solid architecture foundations and addressing potential
compliance needs.

Development teams will understand best practices and efficient
architecture and security practices -- avoiding the problems and costs
of poor design. Teams will gain the knowledge to automate builds,
package, test, and deliver applications based on MySQL to various
hosting environments. By leveraging continuous integration and
deployment (CI/CD), costs related to manual deployment tasks can be
reduced or completely removed.

Many steps in the application lifecycle go beyond simply building and
deploying an application. This guide will cover how easy it is to
monitor system uptime and performance in the various Azure services.
Administrators will appreciate the realistic and straightforward
troubleshooting tips that help keep downtime to a minimum and users
happy.

The ultimate goal is to successfully deploy a stable, performant MySQL
application running securely in Microsoft Azure using cloud best
practices. Let's start the journey!

# 02 / What is MySQL?

MySQL is a relational database management system based on [Structured
Query Language (SQL)]. MySQL supports a rich set of SQL query
capabilities and offers excellent performance through storage engines
optimized for transactional and non-transactional workloads, in-memory
processing, and robust server configuration through modules. Its low
total cost of ownership (TCO) makes it extremely popular with many
organizations. Customers can use existing frameworks and languages to
connect easily with MySQL databases. Reference the latest [MySQL
Documentation] for a more in-depth review of MySQL's features.

One of MySQL databases' common use cases is the data store for web
applications. Due to MySQL's scalability, popular content management
systems (CMS), such as [WordPress] and [Drupal], utilize it for their
data persistence needs. More broadly, [LAMP] apps, which integrate
Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP, leverage scalable web servers, languages,
and database engines to serve many global web services.

## Comparison with other RDBMS offerings

Though MySQL has a distinct set of advantages, it does compete with
other typical relational database offerings. Though the emphasis of this
guide is operating MySQL on Azure to architect scalable applications, it
is important to be aware of other potential offerings such as [MariaDB].
MariaDB is a fork from the original MySQL code base that occurred when
[Oracle purchased Sun Microsystems]. Organizations can easily host
MariaDB in Azure through [Azure Database for MariaDB.]

While MariaDB is compatible with the MySQL protocol, the project is not
managed by Oracle, and its maintainers claim that this allows them to
better compete with other proprietary databases. Although there are
several different options to choose from, MySQL has over twenty years of
development experience backing it, and businesses appreciate the
platform's maturity.

Another popular open-source MySQL competitor is [PostgreSQL]. MySQL
supports many of the advanced features of PostgreSQL, such as JSON
storage, replication and failover, and partitioning, in an easy-to-use
manner. Microsoft offers a cloud-hosted [Azure Database for PostgreSQL],
which can be compared with cloud-hosted MySQL [in Microsoft Learn.]

## MySQL hosting options

Like other DBMS systems, MySQL has multiple deployment options for
development and production environments.

### On-premises

MySQL is a cross-platform offering, and corporations can utilize their
on-premises hardware to deploy highly-available MySQL configurations.
MySQL on-premises deployments are highly configurable, but they require
significant upfront hardware capital expenditure and have the
disadvantages of hardware/OS maintenance.

One benefit to choosing a cloud-hosted environment over on-premises
configurations is there are no significant upfront costs. Organizations
can choose to pay monthly subscription fees as pay-as-you-go or to
commit to a certain usage level for discounts. Maintenance, OS software
updates, security, and support all fall into the responsibility of the
cloud provider so IT staff are not required to utilize precious time
troubleshooting hardware or software issues.

**Pros**

-   Highly configurable environment

**Cons**

-   Upfront capital expenditures
-   OS and hardware maintenance
-   Increased operation center and labor costs
-   Time to deploy and scale new solutions

### Cloud IaaS (in a VM)

Migrating an organization's infrastructure to an IaaS solution helps
reduce maintenance of on-premises data centers, save money on hardware
costs, and gain real-time business insights. IaaS solutions allow IT
resources to scale up and down with demand. They also help to quickly
provision new applications and increase the reliability of the existing
underlying infrastructure.

IaaS lets organizations bypass the cost and complexity of buying and
managing physical servers and datacenter infrastructure. Each resource
is offered as a separate service component and only requires paying for
resources for as long as they are needed. A cloud computing service
provider like Microsoft Azure manages the infrastructure, while
organizations purchase, install, configure, and manage their own
software---including operating systems, middleware, and applications.

**Pros**

-   Highly configurable environment
-   Fast deployment of additional servers
-   Reduction in operation center costs

**Cons**

-   OS and middleware administration costs

### Containers

While much more lightweight, containers are similar to VMs and can be
started and stopped in a few seconds. Containers also offer tremendous
portability, making them ideal for developing an application locally on
a development machine and then hosting it in the cloud, in test, and
later in production. Containers can even run on-premises or in other
clouds. This flexibility is possible because the development environment
machine travels with the container. The application runs in a consistent
manner. Containerized applications are flexible, cost-effective, and
deploy quickly.

MySQL offers a [Docker image] to operate MySQL in customized and
containerized applications. A container-based MySQL instance can persist
data to the hosting environment via the container runtime, allowing for
high availability across container instances and environments.

**Pros**

-   Application scalability
-   Portability between environments
-   Automated light-weight fast deployments
-   Reduced operating costs

**Cons**

-   Networking and configuration complexity
-   Container monitoring

### Cloud PaaS

MySQL databases can be deployed on public cloud platforms by utilizing
VMs, container runtimes, and Kubernetes. However, these platforms
require a middle ground of customer management. If a fully managed
environment is required, cloud providers offer their own managed MySQL
products, such as Amazon RDS for MySQL and Google Cloud SQL for MySQL.
Microsoft Azure offers Azure Database for MySQL.

## Hosting MySQL on Azure - benefits and options

Now that the benefits of MySQL and a few common deployment models have
been presented, this section explains approaches to hosting MySQL
specifically on Microsoft Azure and the many advantages of the Microsoft
Azure platform.

### Advantages of choosing Azure

Millions of customers worldwide trust the Azure platform, and there are
over 90,000 Cloud Solution Providers (CSPs) partnered with Microsoft to
add extra benefits and services to the Azure platform. By leveraging
Azure, organizations can easily modernize their applications, expedite
application development, and adapt application requirements to meet the
demands of their users.

By offering solutions on Azure, ISVs can access one of the largest B2B
markets in the world. Through the [Azure Partner Builder's Program],
Microsoft assists ISVs with the tools and platform to offer their
solutions for customers to evaluate, purchase, and deploy with just a
few clicks of the mouse.

Microsoft's development suite includes such tools as the various [Visual
Studio] products, [Azure DevOps], [GitHub], and low-code [Power Apps].
All of these contribute to Azure's success and growth through their
tight integrations with the Azure platform. Organizations that adopt
modern tools are 65% more innovative, according to a [2020 McKinsey &
Company report.]

![This image demonstrates common development tools on the Microsoft
cloud platform to expedite application development.]

To facilitate developers' adoption of Azure, Microsoft offers a [free
subscription] with \$200 credit, applicable for thirty days; year-long
access to free quotas for popular services, including Azure Database for
MySQL; and access to always free Azure service tiers. Create an Azure
free account and get 750 hours of Azure Database for MySQL Flexible
Server free.

### MySQL on Azure hosting options

The concepts Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and Platform as a
Service (PaaS) typically define the public cloud provider and the
enterprise customer resource responsibilities. Both approaches are
common ways to host MySQL on Azure.

![This diagram shows the cloud adoption strategy.]

#### IaaS (VMs)

In the IaaS model, organizations deploy MySQL on Azure Virtual Machines.
This model allows the customer to choose when to patch the VM OS, the
MySQL engine, and install other software such as antivirus utilities
when required. Microsoft is responsible for the underlying VM hardware
that constitutes the Azure infrastructure. Customers are responsible for
all other maintenance.

Because IaaS MySQL hosting gives greater control over the MySQL database
engine and the OS, many organizations choose to lift and shift
on-premises solutions while minimizing capital expenditure.

#### IaaS (Containers)

Although VMs are typically considered the primary IaaS approach,
containerizing MySQL instances and applications can also be included in
this approach. Modernizing applications allows for more opportunities
for deployment and management with Kubernetes and container hosting
environments coming into the picture. Azure provides Azure Kubernetes
Service (AKS) and, as explored below, several other PaaS-based
approaches to hosting MySQL and application containers.

#### PaaS (DBaaS)

In the PaaS model, organizations deploy a fully managed MySQL
environment on Azure. Unlike IaaS, they cede control over patching the
MySQL engine and OS to the Azure platform, and Azure automates many
administrative tasks, like providing high availability, backups, and
protecting data.

Like IaaS, customers are still responsible for managing query
performance, database access, and database objects, such as indexes.
PaaS is suitable for applications where the MySQL configuration exposed
by Azure is sufficient, and access to the OS and filesystem is
unnecessary.

The Azure DBaaS MySQL offering is [Azure Database for MySQL][3], which
is based on MySQL community edition and supports common administration
tools and programming languages.

#### PaaS (Containers)

In addition to the IaaS and PaaS options mentioned above, it is possible
to choose to host container based instances inside PaaS-based services
such as Azure Container Instances and Azure App Services.

#### Video reference

For a video comparison of cloud hosting models, please refer to
[Microsoft Learn.]

## Introduction to Azure resource management

With a firm understanding of why millions of organizations choose Azure,
and the database deployment models (IaaS vs. PaaS), the next step is to
provide more detail about **how** developers interact with Azure.

The [Azure Fundamentals Microsoft Learn Module] demonstrates how IaaS
and PaaS classifies Azure services. Moreover, Azure empowers flexible
*hybrid cloud* deployments and supports a variety of common tools, such
as Visual Studio, PowerShell, and the Azure CLI, to manage Azure
environments.

![IaaS and PaaS Azure service classification and categories]

The following table outlines some of the Azure services used in
application developer scenarios that will be discussed in further detail
in later sections of this guide.

-   **[Virtual Machines (IaaS)]**: Begin by running a PHP sample
    application on an Azure Windows Server Virtual Machine.
-   **[Azure App Service (PaaS)]**: Deploy the PHP application to Azure
    App Service, a flexible, simple-to-use application hosting service.
-   **[Azure Container Instances (PaaS)]**: *Containerize* apps on the
    VM to operate in an environment isolated from other development
    tools installed on the system. Azure Container Instances provides a
    managed environment to operate containers.
-   **[Azure Kubernetes Service (PaaS)]**: AKS also hosts containerized
    apps, but it is optimized for more advanced orchestration scenarios,
    such as high availability.

For a more comprehensive view, consult the [Azure Fundamentals Microsoft
Learn] module.

### The Azure resource management hierarchy

Azure provides a flexible resource hierarchy to simplify cost management
and security. This hierarchy consists of four levels:

-   **[Management groups]**: Management groups consolidate multiple
    Azure subscriptions for compliance and security purposes.
-   **Subscriptions**: Subscriptions govern cost control and access
    management. Azure users cannot provision Azure resources without a
    subscription.
-   **[Resource groups]**: Resource groups consolidate the individual
    Azure resources for a given deployment. All provisioned Azure
    resources belong to one resource group. In this guide, it will be
    required to provision a *resource group* in an *subscription* to
    hold the required resources.
    -   Resource groups are placed in a geographic location that
        determines where metadata about that resource group is stored.
-   **Resources**: An Azure resource is an instance of a service. An
    Azure resource belongs to one resource group located in one
    subscription.
    -   Most Azure resources are provisioned in a particular region.

    ![This image shows Azure resource scopes.]

### Create landing zone

An [Azure landing zone] is the target environment defined as the final
resting place of a cloud migration project. In most projects, the
landing zone should be scripted via ARM templates for its initial setup.
Finally, it should be customized with PowerShell or the Azure Portal to
fit the workload's needs. First-time Azure users will find creating and
deploying to DEV and TEST environments easy.

To help organizations quickly move to Azure, Microsoft provides the
Azure landing zone accelerator, which generates a landing zone ARM
template according to an organization's core needs, governance
requirements, and automation setup. The landing zone accelerator is
available in the Azure portal.

![This image demonstrates the Azure landing zone accelerator in the
Azure portal, and how organizations can optimize Azure for their needs
and innovate.]

### Automating and managing Azure services

When it comes to managing Azure resources, there are many potential
options. [Azure Resource Manager] is the deployment and management
service for Azure. It provides a management layer that enables users to
create, update, and delete resources in Azure subscriptions. Use
management features, like access control, locks, and tags, to secure and
organize resources after deployment.

All Azure management tools, including the [Azure CLI], [Azure
PowerShell] module, [Azure REST API], and browser-based Portal, interact
with the Azure Resource Manager layer and [Identity and access
management (IAM)] security controls.

![This image demonstrates how the Azure Resource Manager provides a
robust, secure interface to Azure resources.]

Access control to all Azure services is offered via the [Azure
role-based access control (Azure
RBAC)][Identity and access management (IAM)] natively built into the
management platform. Azure RBAC is a system that provides fine-grained
access management of Azure resources. Using Azure RBAC, it is possible
to segregate duties within teams and grant only the amount of access to
users that they need to perform their jobs.

### Azure management tools

The flexibility and variety of Azure's management tools make it
intuitive for any user, irrespective of their skill level with specific
technologies. As an individual's skill level and administration needs
mature, Azure has the right tools to match those needs.

![Azure service management tool maturity progression.]

#### Azure portal

As a new Azure user, the first resource a person will be exposed to is
the Azure Portal. The **Azure Portal** gives developers and architects a
view of the state of their Azure resources. It supports extensive user
configuration and simplifies reporting. The **[Azure mobile app]**
provides similar features for users that are away from their main
desktop or laptop.

![The picture shows the initial Azure service list.]

Azure runs on a common framework of backend resource services, and every
action taken in the Azure portal translates into a call to a set of
backend APIs developed by the respective engineering team to read,
create, modify, or delete resources.

##### Azure Marketplace

[Azure Marketplace][4] is an online store that contains thousands of IT
software applications and services built by industry-leading technology
companies. In Azure Marketplace, it is possible to find, try, buy, and
deploy the software and services needed to build new solutions and
manage the cloud infrastructure. The catalog includes solutions for
different industries and technical areas, free trials, and consulting
services from Microsoft partners.

![The picture shows an example of Azure Marketplace search results.]

##### Evolving

Moving workloads to Azure alleviates some administrative burdens, but
not all. Even though there is no need to worry about the data center,
there is still a responsibility for service configuration and user
access. Applications will need resource authorization.

Using the existing command-line tools and REST APIs, it is possible to
build custom tools to automate and report resource configurations that
do not meet organizational requirements.

#### Azure PowerShell and CLI

**Azure PowerShell** and the **Azure CLI** (for Bash shell users) are
useful for automating tasks that cannot be performed in the Azure
portal. Both tools follow an *imperative* approach, meaning that users
must explicitly script the creation of resources in the correct order.

![Shows an example of the Azure CLI.]

There are subtle differences between how each of these tools operates
and the actions that can be accomplished. Use the [Azure command-line
tool guide] to determine the right tool to meet the target goal.

#### Azure CLI

It is possible to run the Azure CLI and Azure PowerShell from the [Azure
Cloud Shell], but it does have some limitations. It is also possible to
run these tools locally.

To use the Azure CLI, [download the CLI tools from Microsoft.]

To use the Azure PowerShell cmdlets, install the `Az` module from the
PowerShell Gallery, as described in the [installation document.]

##### Azure Cloud Shell

The Azure Cloud Shell provides Bash and PowerShell environments for
managing Azure resources imperatively. It also includes standard
development tools, like Visual Studio Code, and files are persisted in
an Azure Files share.

Launch the Cloud Shell in a browser at
[shell.azure.com][Azure Cloud Shell].

#### PowerShell Module

The Azure portal and Windows PowerShell can be used for managing the
Azure Database for MySQL. To get started with Azure PowerShell, install
the [Azure PowerShell cmdlets] for MySQL with the following PowerShell
command:

``` powershell
Install-Module -Name Az.MySQL
```

After the modules are installed, reference tutorials to learn how to
take advantage of scripting management activities:

-   [Tutorial: Design an Azure Database for MySQL using PowerShell]

#### Infrastructure as Code

[Infrastructure as Code (IaC)] provides a way to describe or declare
what infrastructure looks like using descriptive code. The
infrastructure code is the desired state. The environment will be built
when the code runs and completes. One of the main benefits of IaC is
that it is human readable. Once the environment code is proven and
tested, it can be versioned and saved into source code control.
Developers can review the environment changes over time.

##### ARM templates

[ARM templates] can deploy Azure resources in a *declarative* manner.
Azure Resource Manager can potentially create the resources in an ARM
template in parallel. ARM templates can be used to create multiple
identical environments, such as development, staging, and production
environments.

![The picture shows an example of an ARM template JSON export.]

##### Bicep

Reading, updating, and managing the ARM template JSON code can be
difficult for a reasonably sized environment. What if there was a tool
that translates simple declarative statements into ARM templates? Better
yet, what if there was a tool that took existing ARM templates and
translated them into a simple configuration? [Bicep] is a
domain-specific language (DSL) that uses a declarative syntax to deploy
Azure resources. Bicep files define the infrastructure to deploy to
Azure and then use that file throughout the development lifecycle to
repeatedly deploy infrastructure changes. Resources are deployed
consistently.

By using the Azure CLI it is possible to decompile ARM templates to
Bicep using the following:

``` powershell
az bicep decompile --file template.json
```

Additionally, the [Bicep playground] tool can perform similar
decompilation of ARM templates.

[Explore the Bicep template benefits]

![This image demonstrates part of a sample Bicep template for
provisioning Azure Database for MySQL.]

##### Terraform

[Hashicorp Terraform] is an open-source tool for provisioning and
managing cloud infrastructure. [Terraform] is adept at deploying
infrastructure across multiple cloud providers. It enables developers to
use consistent tooling to manage each infrastructure definition.

![This image demonstrates part of a sample Terraform template for
provisioning Azure Database for MySQL.]

#### Other tips

Azure administrators should consult with cloud architects and financial
and security personnel to develop an effective organizational hierarchy
of resources. Here are some best practices to follow for Azure
deployments.

-   **Utilize Management Groups** Create at least three levels of
    management groups.
-   **Adopt a naming convention:** Names in Azure should include
    business details, such as the organization department, and
    operational details for IT personnel, like the workload.
-   **Adopt other Azure governance tools:** Azure provides mechanisms
    such as [resource tags] and [resource locks] to facilitate
    compliance, cost management, and security.

### Azure deployment resources

#### Support

Azure provides [multiple support plans for businesses], depending on
their business continuity requirements. There is also a large user
community:

-   [StackOverflow Azure Tag]
-   [Azure on Twitter]
-   Move to Azure efficiently with customized guidance from Azure
    engineers. [FastTrack for Azure]

#### Training

-   [Azure Certifications & Exams]
-   [Microsoft Learn]
    -   [Azure Fundamentals (AZ-900) Learning Path]

## Introduction to Azure Database for MySQL

Developers can deploy MySQL on Azure through Virtual Machines (IaaS) or
Azure Database for MySQL (PaaS). Azure database for MySQL offers high
availability, automated backups, and meets compliance requirements.
Operational administrators do not have the operational overhead of
managing the OS and the DB engine. They do not need to worry about OS
patching, database backups, or server security. Administrators only need
to manage the applications and data. Developers can focus on schema
design, building queries, and optimizing query performance.

Azure Database for MySQL supports MySQL Community Editions 5.6, 5.7, and
8.0, making it flexible for most migrations. Reference the [Migrating to
Azure Database for MySQL] guide for in-depth information and examples on
how to successfully migrate to Microsoft Azure.

**Control Plane** As the image below demonstrates, Azure Resource
Manager handles resource configuration, meaning that standard Azure
management tools, such as the CLI, PowerShell, and ARM templates, are
still applicable. This is commonly referred to as the *control plane*.

**Data Plane** For managing database objects and access controls at the
server and database levels, standard MySQL management tools, such as
[MySQL Workbench], still apply. This is known as the *data plane*.

![This image demonstrates the control and data plane for Azure Database
for MySQL.]

### Azure Database for MySQL deployment options

Azure Database for MySQL provides two options for deployment: Single
Server and Flexible Server. Below is a summary of these offerings. For a
more comprehensive comparison table, please consult the article [Choose
the right MySQL Server option in Azure].

> **Note:** This guide will be focused on Flexible Server and will not
> explore Single Server.

#### Flexible Server

Flexible Server is also a PaaS service fully managed by the Azure
platform, but it exposes more control to the user than Single Server.

##### Flexible Server video introduction

Watch [this video by Data Exposed] to learn more about Flexible Server's
advantages.

Cost management is one of the advantages of Flexible Server: it supports
a *burstable* tier, which is based on the B-series Azure VM tier and is
optimized for workloads that do not continually use the CPU. [Flexible
Server instances can also be paused]. The image below shows how Flexible
Server works for a non-high availability arrangement.

> *Locally-redundant storage* replicates data within a single
> [availability zone]. *Availability zones* are present within a single
> Azure region (such as East US) and are geographically isolated. All
> Azure regions that support availability zones have at least three.

![This image demonstrates how MySQL Flexible Server works, with compute,
storage, and backup storage.]

Here are a few other notable advantages of Flexible Server.

-   [User-scheduled service maintenance:] Flexible Server allows
    database administrators to set a day of the week and a time for
    Azure to perform service maintenance and upgrades, **per server**.
    Providing notifications five days before a planned maintenance
    event, Flexible Server caters to the needs of IT operations
    personnel.

    ![][5]

-   [Network security:] Applications access Flexible Server through the
    public Internet (though access is governed by firewall ACLs), or
    through private IP addresses in an Azure Virtual Network. Moreover,
    TLS support keeps traffic encrypted, irrespective of the chosen
    network access model.

-   [Automatic backups:] Azure automates database backups, encrypts
    them, and stores them for a configurable period.

    ![][6]

-   [Read replicas:] Read replicas help teams scale their applications
    by providing read-only copies of the data updated on the master
    node. Often, applications that run on elastic, autoscaling services,
    like Azure App Service, couple well with read replicas.

-   [Input-output operations per second (IOPS):] IOPS can be configured
    based on your performance needs.

    ![][7]

**Some of these features are not exclusive to Flexible Server. Further
guide sections demonstrate Flexible Server exposes far more versatility
and is the preferred Azure Database for MySQL choice in Azure for new
and existing apps.**

##### Flexible Server pricing & TCO

The MySQL Flexible Server tiers offer a storage range between 20 GiB and
16 TiB and the same backup retention period range of 1-35 days. However,
they differ in core count and memory per vCore. Choosing a compute tier
affects the database IOPS and pricing.

-   **Burstable**: This tier corresponds to a B-series Azure VM.
    Instances provisioned in this tier have 1-2 vCores. It is ideal for
    applications that do not utilize the CPU consistently.
-   **General Purpose**: This tier corresponds to a Ddsv4-series Azure
    VM. Instances provisioned in this tier have 2-64 vCores and 4 GiB
    memory per vCore. It is ideal for most enterprise applications
    requiring a strong balance between memory and vCore count.
-   **Memory Optimized**: This tier corresponds to an Edsv4-series Azure
    VM. Instances provisioned in this tier have 2-64 vCores and 8 GiB
    memory per vCore. It is ideal for high-performance or real-time
    workloads that depend on in-memory processing.

To estimate the TCO for Azure Database for MySQL:

1.  Use the [Azure Pricing Calculator].

    > **Note:** that the [Azure TCO Calculator] can be used to estimate
    > the cost savings of deploying PaaS Azure MySQL over the same
    > deployment in an on-premises data center.

2.  Indicate the configuration of on-premises hardware and the Azure
    landing zone, adjust calculation parameters, like the cost of
    electricity, and observe the potential savings.

##### Flexible Server Unsupported Features

Azure provides a [detailed list of the limitations of Flexible Server].
Here are a few notable ones.

-   Support for only the InnoDB and MEMORY storage engines; MyISAM is
    unsupported
-   The DBA role and the `SUPER` privilege are unsupported
-   `SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE` statements to write query results to files
    are unsupported, as the filesystem is not directly exposed by the
    service

#### Single Server

Single Server is suitable when apps do not need extensive database
customization. Single Server will manage patching, high availability,
and backups on a predetermined schedule (though developers can set the
backup retention times between a week and 35 days). To reduce compute
costs, developers can [pause the Single Server offering]. Single Server
offers an [SLA of 99.99%]. For a refresher on how the SLAs of individual
Azure services affect the SLA of the total deployment, review the
associated [Microsoft Learn Module.]

> **Note:** Single servers are best suited for existing applications
> already leveraging Single Server. For all new developments or
> migrations, Flexible Server is the recommended deployment option.

> **Note:** This guide will focus primarily on Flexible Server and will
> not explore Single Server in depth.

## Migrate to Flexible Server

### From Single Server to Flexible Server

Data-in replication, which replays log events from the source system to
the target system, is the preferred approach for migrating from Single
Server to Flexible Server. Typically, teams generate a dump of the
source Single Server through a utility like `mydumper`. Then, they
restore the dump to the target Flexible Server using `myloader`. Lastly,
they configure data-in replication on the target Flexible Server, modify
their applications to target Flexible Server, and end replication.

Consult the [Azure documentation] for more information.

### From on-premises to Flexible Server

Like the migration from Single Server, migrations from sources running
on-premises utilize data-in replication. The source databases should be
MySQL 5.7, or higher. Adequate network connectivity should be available.

Verify that the source system meets the migration requirements listed in
the [Azure documentation.]

## 02 / Summary

This module explained everyday use cases for MySQL and illustrated the
typical IaaS and PaaS deployment approaches. Additional hybrid
approaches to hosting MySQL applications and databases on Microsoft
Azure were discussed as well. The reader was introduced to the core
approaches to managing Microsoft Azure resources, including imperative
tools (like the Azure CLI and Azure PowerShell) and declarative tools
(like ARM templates and Terraform).

The emphasis of this guide will continue to be on the advantages of
Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server versus the single server
offering. Flexible Server is the preferred Azure Database for MySQL
offering. This guide will continue to reiterate the unique benefits of
Flexible Server throughout the remainder of this guide but also provide
references to Single Server where necessary and appropriate.

# 03 / Getting Started - Setup and Tools

With a firm understanding of MySQL and other offerings available in
Azure, it is time to review how to start using these various services in
applications. In this chapter, we explore how to get Azure subscriptions
configured and ready to host MySQL applications. Common MySQL
application types and the various tools to simplify their deployment
will reviewed. Sample code will make it easier to get started faster and
understand high-level concepts.

## Azure free account

Azure offers a [\$200 free credit for developers to trial Azure] or jump
right into a Pay-as-you-go subscription. The free account includes
credits for 750 compute hours of Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible
Server. [Innovate faster with fully managed MySQL and an Azure free
account.]

## Azure subscriptions and limits

As explained in the [Introduction to Azure resource management],
subscriptions are a critical component of the Azure hierarchy: resources
cannot be provisioned without an Azure subscription, and although the
cloud is highly scalable, it is not possible to provision an unlimited
number of resources. A set of initial limits applies to all Azure
subscriptions. However, the limits for some Azure services can be
raised, assuming that the Azure subscription is not a free trial.
Organizations can raise these limits by submitting support tickets
through the Azure Portal. Limit increase requests help tell Microsoft
capacity planning teams to understand if they need to provide more
capacity when needed.

Since most Azure services are provisioned in regions, some limits apply
at the regional level. Developers must consider both global and regional
subscription limits when developing and deploying applications.

Consult [Azure's comprehensive list of service and subscription limits]
for more details.

## Azure authentication

As mentioned previously, Azure Database for MySQL consists of a data
plane (data storage and data manipulation) and a control plane
(management of the Azure resource). Authentication is separated between
the control plane and the data plane as well.

In the control plane, Azure Active Directory authenticates users and
determines whether users are authorized to operate against an Azure
resource. Review Azure RBAC in the [Introduction to Azure resource
management] section for more information.

The built-in MySQL account management system governs access for
administrator and non-administrator users in the data plane. Moreover,
Single Server supports security principals in Azure Active Directory,
like users and groups, for data-plane access management. Using AAD
data-plane access management allows organizations to enforce credential
policies, specify authentication modes, and more. Refer to the
[Microsoft docs] for more information.

> **Note:** Flexible Server does not support Azure Active Directory
> principal authentication.

## Development editor tools

Developers have various code editor tools to choose from to complete
their IT projects. Commercial organizations and OSS communities have
produced tools and plug-ins making Azure application development
efficient and rapid. A very popular tool is Visual Studio Code (VS
Code). VS Code is an open-source, cross-platform text editor. It offers
useful utilities for various languages through extensions. Download VS
Code from the [Microsoft download page.]

![A simple screenshot of Visual Studio Code.]

The [MySQL][8] extension allows developers to organize their database
connections, administer databases, and query databases. Consider adding
it to Visual Studio Code environment to make working with MySQL
instances more efficient.

When you are done developing for the day, you can stop Flexible Server.
This feature helps keep the organizational costs low.

## Resources

-   [App Service overview][Azure App Service (PaaS)]

-   [Azure App Service plan overview]

-   [Plan and manage costs for Azure App Service]

## Create a Flexible Server database

The focus of this guide is on demonstrating practical uses of MySQL
Flexible Server, such as querying Flexible Server with common languages
and administrative tools. This section illustrates how to deploy MySQL
Flexible Server using various Azure management tools in preparation to
follow the guide language samples.

### Azure portal

Azure provides a [Quickstart document] for users who want to use the
Azure portal to provision Flexible Server. While this is a great
opportunity to explore the configuration parameters of Flexible Server,
IaC approaches, like the imperative Azure CLI or the declarative ARM
template, are preferable to create deployments that can easily be
replicated in other environments.

### Azure CLI

The Azure CLI `az mysql flexible-server` set of commands is very robust.
[Azure's quickstart guide] demonstrates how the
`az mysql flexible-server create` and
`az mysql flexible-server db create` commands can automatically populate
server parameters. Note that it is possible to exercise greater control
over these commands by reviewing the documentation for the
[`flexible-server create`] and [`flexible-server db create`] commands.

> Running the CLI commands from [Azure Cloud Shell] is preferable, as
> the context is already authenticated with Azure.

The image below, from a successful CLI provisioning attempt for Flexible
Server, maps CLI flags to various Flexible Server parameters.

![This image demonstrates the MySQL Flexible Server provisioned through
Bash CLI commands.]

### ARM template

Azure provides a [quickstart document][9] with a comprehensive ARM
template for a Flexible Server deployment. We have also provided a
straightforward \[Flexible Server deployment sample ARM template\]. The
Azure sample template requires additional parameters to run. It can be
deployed with the `New-AzResourceGroupDeployment` PowerShell command in
the Quickstart or the `az deployment group create` CLI command.

## Connect and query Azure Database for MySQL using MySQL Workbench

This section explains how to perform queries against Azure Database for
MySQL Flexible Server using MySQL Workbench, a UI-based management tool.

### Setup

Follow one of the methods in the [Create a Flexible Server database]
document to create a Flexible Server instance with a database.

Download MySQL Workbench from the [MySQL Downloads.]

### Instructions

Explore the [Use MySQL Workbench with Azure Database for MySQL Flexible
Server] article to perform the following activities:

-   Create a new database in the Flexible Server instance
-   Create, query, and update data in a table (inventory)
-   Delete records from the table

Note that MySQL Workbench can automatically initiate an SSL-secured
connection to Azure Database for MySQL. However, it is recommended to
use the [SSL public certificate] in the connections. To bind the SSL
public certificate to MySQL Workbench, choose the downloaded certificate
file as the **SSL CA File** on the **SSL** tab.

![Add the SSL CA file on the SSL tab of the Setup New Connection dialog
box.]

## Language support

Once an editor is selected, the next step is to pick a development
language or platform. Below are some quick links:

[PHP]

[Java]

[Python]

[Other notable languages for MySQL apps]

### PHP

This section describes tools to interact with Azure Database for MySQL
(Single Server and Flexible Server) through PHP.

#### Example code

Refer to the [Connect and query Azure Database for MySQL using PHP]
application for examples of how to use PHP to connect to MySQL.

#### Application connectors

There are two major APIs to interact with MySQL in PHP:

-   *MySQLi*, *MySQLi* is an improvement over the earlier *MySQL* API,
    which does not meet the security needs of modern applications.
-   *PDO*, or *PHP Data Objects*, allows applications to access
    databases in PHP through abstractions, standardizing data access for
    different databases. PDO works with a database-specific driver, like
    *PDO_MYSQL*.

> ![Tip] **Tip:** *MySQLi* and *PDO* are wrappers over the *mysqlnd* or
> *libmysqlclient* C libraries: it is highly recommended to use
> *mysqlnd* as the default backend library due to its more advanced
> features. *mysqlnd* is the default backend provided with PHP.

Flexible Server and Single Server are compatible with all PHP client
utilities for MySQL Community Edition.

#### Resources

1.  [Create a PHP web app in Azure App Service]
2.  [Backend libraries for mysqli and PDO_MySQL]
3.  [Introduction to PDO]
4.  [PDO_MYSQL Reference]
5.  [Configure a PHP app for Azure App Service]
6.  The [php.ini directives] allow for the customization of the PHP
    environment.

### Java

This section describes tools to interact with Azure Database for MySQL
Flexible Server through Java.

#### Example code

Refer to the [Quickstart: Use Java and JDBC with Azure Database for
MySQL]

#### Application connectors

*MySQL Connector/J* is a JDBC-compatible API that natively implements
the MySQL protocol in Java, rather than utilizing client libraries. The
Connect and Query sample does not directly utilize *MySQL Connector/J*,
but Microsoft provides a sample that uses this technology.

Developers use persistence frameworks like Spring Data JPA to accelerate
development. They can focus on the application business logic, not basic
database communication. Spring Data JPA extends the JPA specification,
which governs *object-relational mapping* (ORM) technologies in Java. It
functions on top of JPA implementations, like the Hibernate ORM. The
Connect and Query sample leverages Spring Data JPA and *MySQL
Connector/J* to access the Azure MySQL instance and expose data through
a web API.

Flexible Server is compatible with all Java client utilities for MySQL
Community Edition. However, Microsoft has only validated *MySQL
Connector/J* for use with Single Server due to its network connectivity
setup. Refer to the [MySQL drivers and management tools compatible with
Azure Database for MySQL] article for more information about drivers
compatible with Single Server.

#### Resources

1.  [MySQL Connector/J Introduction]
2.  MySQL Connector/J Microsoft Samples
    -   [Flexible Server]
    -   [Single
        Server][Quickstart: Use Java and JDBC with Azure Database for MySQL]
3.  [Introduction to Spring Data JPA]
4.  [Hibernate ORM]

#### Tooling

##### IntelliJ IDEA

Currently, Single-Server is supported.

##### Eclipse

Eclipse is another popular IDE for Java development. It supports
extensions for enterprise Java development, including powerful utilities
for Spring applications. Moreover, through the Azure Toolkit for
Eclipse, developers can quickly deploy their applications to Azure
directly from Eclipse.

**Tool-Specific Resources**

1.  [Installing the Azure Toolkit for Eclipse]
2.  [Create a Hello World web app for Azure App Service using Eclipse]

##### Maven

Maven improves the productivity of Java developers by managing builds,
dependencies, releases, documentation, and more. Maven projects are
created from archetypes. Microsoft provides the Maven Plugins for Azure
to help Java developers work with Azure Functions, Azure App Service,
and Azure Spring Cloud from their Maven workflows.

> **Note**: Application patterns with Azure Functions, Azure App
> Service, and Azure Spring Cloud are addressed in the \[End to End
> application development\] story.

**Tool-Specific Resources**

1.  [Azure for Java developer documentation]
2.  [Maven Introduction]
3.  [Develop Java web app on Azure using Maven (App Service)]
4.  [Deploy Spring microservices to Azure (Spring Cloud)]
5.  [Develop Java serverless Functions on Azure using Maven]

### Python

This section describes tools to interact with Azure Database for MySQL
(Single Server and Flexible Server) through Python.

#### Example code

Refer to the [Connect and query Azure Database for MySQL using Python]
sample.

#### Application connectors

*MySQL Connector/Python* offers a Python Database API
specification-compatible driver for MySQL database access (PEP 249). It
does not depend on a MySQL client library. The Python Connect and Query
sample utilizes *MySQL Connector/Python*.

An alternative connector is *PyMySQL*. It is also PEP 249-compliant.

Django is a popular web application framework for Python. The Django ORM
officially supports MySQL through (1) the *mysqlclient* Python wrapper
for the native MySQL driver or (2) the *MySQL Connector/Python* API.
*mysqlclient* is recommended for use with the Django ORM.

Flexible Server is compatible with all Python client utilities for MySQL
Community Edition. However, Microsoft has only validated *MySQL
Connector/Python* and *PyMySQL* for use with Single Server due to its
network connectivity setup. Refer to
[this][MySQL drivers and management tools compatible with Azure Database for MySQL]
document for more information about drivers compatible with Single
Server.

#### Resources

1.  [Introduction to MySQL Connector/Python]
2.  [PyMySQL Samples]
3.  [MySQLdb (mysqlclient) User's Guide]
4.  [Django ORM Support for MySQL]

### Other notable languages for MySQL apps

Like the other language support guides, Flexible Server is compatible
with all MySQL clients that support MySQL Community Edition. Microsoft
provides a [curated list of compatible clients for MySQL Single
Server][MySQL drivers and management tools compatible with Azure Database for MySQL].

#### .NET

.NET applications typically use ORMs to access databases and improve
portability: two of the most popular ORMs are Entity Framework (Core)
and Dapper.

Using MySQL with Entity Framework (Core) requires [MySQL Connector/NET],
which is compatible with Single Server. Learn more [from the MySQL
documentation] about support for Entity Framework (Core).

Microsoft has also validated that MySQL Single Server is compatible with
the [Async MySQL Connector for .NET]. This connector works with both
Dapper and Entity Framework (Core).

#### Ruby

The [*Mysql2*] library, compatible with Single Server, provides MySQL
connectivity in Ruby by referencing C implementations of the MySQL
connector.

## Connect and query Azure Database for MySQL using the Azure CLI

Workbench is not the only method of running queries against your MySQL
database. This section explains how to perform queries against Azure
Database for MySQL Flexible Server using the Azure CLI and the
`az mysql flexible-server` utilities and references the steps in the
[Quickstart: Connect and query with Azure CLI with Azure Database for
MySQL - Flexible Server] article.

### Setup

While the Azure article demonstrates how to provision a Flexible Server
instance using the CLI, any of the presented provisioning methods in the
[Create a Flexible Server database] section are possible.

### Instructions

The Azure CLI supports running queries interactively, via the
`az mysql flexible-server connect` command, which is similar to running
queries interactively against a MySQL instance through the MySQL CLI. It
is also possible to run an individual SQL query or a SQL file using the
`az mysql flexible-server execute` command.

Note that these commands require the `rdbms-connect` CLI extension,
which is automatically installed if it is not present. If permissions
errors are encountered from the Azure Cloud Shell, execute the commands
from a local installation of the Azure CLI.

In addition to the queries in the document, it is also possible to run
basic admin queries. The statements below create a new user `analyst`
that can read data from all tables in `newdatabase`.

``` sql
USE newdatabase;
CREATE USER 'analyst'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY '[SECURE PASSWORD]';
GRANT SELECT ON newdatabase.* TO 'analyst'@'%';
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```

The new `analyst` user can also connect to `newdatabase` in the Flexible
Server instance. The new user can only query tables in `newdatabase`.

![This image demonstrates running queries against the Flexible Server
instance using the Azure CLI.]

> For more details on creating databases and users in Single Server and
> Flexible Server, consult [this document.] Note that it uses the
> `mysql` CLI.

## Connect and query Azure Database for MySQL using PHP

Running SQL statements from an application is quite common. This section
demonstrates how to manipulate data in an Azure Database for MySQL
Flexible Server instance and query it using PHP and the *MySQLi*
library, which is provided with PHP.

### Setup

Follow one of the methods in the \[Provision Flexible Server and a
database\] document to create a Flexible Server instance with a
database.

Moreover, install PHP from the [downloads page.] These instructions were
tested with PHP 8.0.13 (any PHP 8.0 version should work).

> The `php.ini` file needs to uncomment the `extension=mysqli` and
> `extension=openssl` lines for these steps to work.

A text editor such as Visual Studio Code may also be useful.

Lastly, download the [connection certificate][SSL public certificate]
that is used for SSL connections with the MySQL Flexible Server
instance. In these snippets, the certificate is saved to `C:\Tools` on
Windows. Adjust this if necessary.

### Instructions

Microsoft's [Quickstart guide] performs standard CRUD operations against
the MySQL instance from a console app. This document modifies the code
segments from the guide to provide an encrypted connection to the
Flexible Server instance.

The first code snippet creates a table called `Products` with four
columns, including a primary key. Adjust the `host`, `username` (most
likely `sqlroot`), `password`, and `db_name` (most likely `newdatabase`)
parameters to the values used during provisioning. Moreover, adjust the
certificate path in the `mysqli_ssl_set()` method.

``` php
<?php
$host = '[SERVER NAME].mysql.database.azure.com';
$username = 'sqlroot';
$password = '[PASSWORD]';
$db_name = 'newdatabase';

//Establishes the connection
$conn = mysqli_init();
mysqli_ssl_set($conn, NULL, NULL, "C:\Tools\DigiCertGlobalRootCA.crt.pem", NULL, NULL);
mysqli_real_connect($conn, $host, $username, $password, $db_name, 3306, MYSQLI_CLIENT_SSL);
if (mysqli_connect_errno()) {
die('Failed to connect to MySQL: '.mysqli_connect_error());
}

// Run the create table query
if (mysqli_query($conn, '
CREATE TABLE Products (
`Id` INT NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT ,
`ProductName` VARCHAR(200) NOT NULL ,
`Color` VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL ,
`Price` DOUBLE NOT NULL ,
PRIMARY KEY (`Id`)
);
')) {
printf("Table created\n");
}

//Close the connection
mysqli_close($conn);
?>
```

Console output with the message `Table created` should be displayed.

The second code snippet uses the same logic to start and close an
SSL-secured connection. This time, it leverages a prepared insert
statement with bound parameters.

``` php
<?php
$host = '[SERVER NAME].mysql.database.azure.com';
$username = 'sqlroot';
$password = '[PASSWORD]';
$db_name = 'newdatabase';

//Establishes the connection
$conn = mysqli_init();
mysqli_ssl_set($conn, NULL, NULL, "C:\Tools\DigiCertGlobalRootCA.crt.pem", NULL, NULL);
mysqli_real_connect($conn, $host, $username, $password, $db_name, 3306, MYSQLI_CLIENT_SSL);
if (mysqli_connect_errno()) {
die('Failed to connect to MySQL: '.mysqli_connect_error());
}

//Create an Insert prepared statement and run it
$product_name = 'BrandNewProduct';
$product_color = 'Blue';
$product_price = 15.5;
if ($stmt = mysqli_prepare($conn, "INSERT INTO Products (ProductName, Color, Price) VALUES (?, ?, ?)")) {
mysqli_stmt_bind_param($stmt, 'ssd', $product_name, $product_color, $product_price);
mysqli_stmt_execute($stmt);
printf("Insert: Affected %d rows\n", mysqli_stmt_affected_rows($stmt));
mysqli_stmt_close($stmt);
}

//Close the connection
mysqli_close($conn);
?>
```

The console output message `Insert: Affected 1 rows` should be
displayed.

The third code snippet utilizes the `mysqli_query()` method, just like
the first code snippet. However, it also utilizes the
`mysqli_fetch_assoc()` method to parse the result set.

``` php
<?php
$host = '[SERVER NAME].mysql.database.azure.com';
$username = 'sqlroot';
$password = '[PASSWORD]';
$db_name = 'newdatabase';

//Establishes the connection
$conn = mysqli_init();
mysqli_ssl_set($conn, NULL, NULL, "C:\Tools\DigiCertGlobalRootCA.crt.pem", NULL, NULL);
mysqli_real_connect($conn, $host, $username, $password, $db_name, 3306, MYSQLI_CLIENT_SSL);
if (mysqli_connect_errno()) {
die('Failed to connect to MySQL: '.mysqli_connect_error());
}

//Run the Select query
printf("Reading data from table: \n");
$res = mysqli_query($conn, 'SELECT * FROM Products');
while ($row = mysqli_fetch_assoc($res)) {
var_dump($row);
}

//Close the connection
mysqli_close($conn);
?>
```

PHP returns an array with the column values for the row inserted in the
previous snippet.

The next snippet uses a prepared update statement with bound parameters.
It modifies the `Price` column of the record.

``` php
<?php
$host = '[SERVER NAME].mysql.database.azure.com';
$username = 'sqlroot';
$password = '[PASSWORD]';
$db_name = 'newdatabase';

//Establishes the connection
$conn = mysqli_init();
mysqli_ssl_set($conn, NULL, NULL, "C:\Tools\DigiCertGlobalRootCA.crt.pem", NULL, NULL);
mysqli_real_connect($conn, $host, $username, $password, $db_name, 3306, MYSQLI_CLIENT_SSL);
if (mysqli_connect_errno()) {
die('Failed to connect to MySQL: '.mysqli_connect_error());
}

//Run the Update statement
$product_name = 'BrandNewProduct';
$new_product_price = 15.1;
if ($stmt = mysqli_prepare($conn, "UPDATE Products SET Price = ? WHERE ProductName = ?")) {
mysqli_stmt_bind_param($stmt, 'ds', $new_product_price, $product_name);
mysqli_stmt_execute($stmt);
printf("Update: Affected %d rows\n", mysqli_stmt_affected_rows($stmt));

//Close the connection
mysqli_stmt_close($stmt);
}

//Close the connection
mysqli_close($conn);
?>
```

After executing these commands, the message `Update: Affected 1 rows`
should be displayed.

The final code snippet deletes a row from the table using the
`ProductName` column value. It again uses a prepared statement with
bound parameters.

``` php
<?php
$host = '[SERVER NAME].mysql.database.azure.com';
$username = 'sqlroot';
$password = '[PASSWORD]';
$db_name = 'newdatabase';

//Establishes the connection
$conn = mysqli_init();
mysqli_ssl_set($conn, NULL, NULL, "C:\Tools\DigiCertGlobalRootCA.crt.pem", NULL, NULL);
mysqli_real_connect($conn, $host, $username, $password, $db_name, 3306, MYSQLI_CLIENT_SSL);
if (mysqli_connect_errno()) {
die('Failed to connect to MySQL: '.mysqli_connect_error());
}

//Run the Delete statement
$product_name = 'BrandNewProduct';
if ($stmt = mysqli_prepare($conn, "DELETE FROM Products WHERE ProductName = ?")) {
mysqli_stmt_bind_param($stmt, 's', $product_name);
mysqli_stmt_execute($stmt);
printf("Delete: Affected %d rows\n", mysqli_stmt_affected_rows($stmt));
mysqli_stmt_close($stmt);
}

//Close the connection
mysqli_close($conn);
?>
```

Congratulations. An SSL-secured connection with Flexible Server was
demonstrated, a table was created (DDL), and some CRUD operations were
performed against that table (DML).

## Connect and query Azure Database for MySQL using Python

This section will demonstrate how to query Azure Database for MySQL
Flexible Server using the `mysql-connector-python` library on Python 3.

### Setup

Follow one of the methods in the [Create a Flexible Server database]
document to create a Flexible Server instance with a database.

Moreover, install Python 3.7 or above from the [Downloads page]. This
sample was tested using Python 3.8.

A text editor like Visual Studio Code will greatly help.

Though a Python Virtual Environment is not necessary for the sample to
run, using one will avoid conflicts with packages installed globally on
the development system. The commands below will create a Virtual
Environment called `venv` and activate it on Windows. Instructions will
differ for other OS.

``` cmd
python -m venv venv
.\venv\Scripts\activate
```

### Instructions

This section is based on [Microsoft's sample].

The first code snippet creates a table, `inventory`, with three columns.
It uses raw queries to create the `inventory` table and insert three
rows. If the snippet succeeds, the following output will be displayed.

    Connection established
    Finished dropping table (if existed).
    Finished creating table.
    Inserted 1 row(s) of data.
    Inserted 1 row(s) of data.
    Inserted 1 row(s) of data.
    Done.

Note that the sample establishes an SSL connection with the MySQL
instance. Use the statement below (placed before `cursor` and `conn` are
closed) to validate the use of SSL.

``` python
cursor.execute("SHOW STATUS LIKE 'Ssl_cipher'")
print(cursor.fetchone())
```

It is recommended to bind the [SSL public certificate] with connections
to Flexible Server. Download the public certificate to a location on the
development machine (such as `C:\Tools`). Then, edit the `config`
dictionary to add the `ssl_ca` key and the file path of the certificate
as the value.

``` python
config = {
  'host':'[SERVER].mysql.database.azure.com',
  'user':'sqlroot',
  'password':'[PASSWORD]',
  'database':'newdatabase',
  'ssl_ca': 'C:\Tools\DigiCertGlobalRootCA.crt.pem'
}
```

The second code snippet connects to the MySQL instance and executes a
raw query to SELECT all rows from the `inventory` table. This time, it
uses the `fetchall()` method to parse the result set into a Python
iterable. An output like the one below should display:

    Connection established
    Read 3 row(s) of data.
    Data row = (1, banana, 150)
    Data row = (2, orange, 154)
    Data row = (3, apple, 100)
    Done.

The third code snippet executes an UPDATE statement to change the
`quantity` value of the record identified by `name`. An output like the
one below should display:

    Connection established
    Updated 1 row(s) of data.
    Done.

The final snippet executes a raw DELETE statement against the
`inventory` table targeting records identified by `name`. An output like
the one below should display:

    Connection established
    Deleted 1 row(s) of data.
    Done.

At this point, a successfully opened connection to Flexible Server was
established, a table was created (DDL), and CRUD operations were
performed (DML) against data in the table.

If a Python Virtual Environment was created, simply enter `deactivate`
into the console to remove it.

## 03 / Summary

This module augmented an understanding of Flexible Server through
practical examples of how modern applications access Flexible Server.
Flexible Server, unlike Single Server, supports all standard MySQL
clients. Previously presented information Microsoft Azure deployment
tools and concepts were utilized to provision a Flexible Server instance
to run the included code examples.

In the next section, the Contoso NoshNow Sample Application provides a
starting point for the entire developer journey. It provides high-level
concepts and shows how MySQL apps can be evolved into a scalable modern
applications.

# 04 / End to End application development

The previous chapters provided some basic Azure hands-on experience. It
is important to understand high-level concepts before moving to more
advanced examples and concepts. Once you have reviewed the building
block concepts, you will learn about how to set up your Azure
development environment, and get some hands-on architecture experience
by working through the tutorial journey. The guide provides experience
with Windows and Linux infrastructures.

With a configured development environment available, it is time to
explore the various architecture and deployment options available when
deploying an application and its corresponding MySQL database.

![][10]

Watch: [Develop applications faster with Azure Database for MySQL --
Flexible Server \| Data Exposed]

This chapter focuses on these subjects:

![][11]

## Common Azure development services overview

This section explains common cloud application architectures and Azure
services. While these services are not directly related to MySQL, they
are often used in modern Azure applications. This content provides a
fundamental understanding of the common Azure development resources.
Subsequent material will reference these Azure services heavily.

### Web Apps

Developers can deploy MySQL-backed apps to Azure on a Windows or Linux
environment through [Azure App Service,][Azure App Service (PaaS)] a
PaaS platform that supports popular frameworks, including PHP, Java,
Python, Docker containers, and more. App Service is compatible with
manual deployment mechanisms, including ZIP files, FTP, and local Git
repositories. It also supports automated mechanisms, like GitHub
Actions, to deploy faster and minimize issues. Coupled with powerful
management tools, like the Kudu console, App Service is suitable for
many enterprise apps.

#### Resources

-   [App Service overview][Azure App Service (PaaS)]
-   PHP & MySQL Flexible Server sample app:
    -   Manual deployment: \[Running the sample application\]
    -   Scripted deployment: \[Cloud Deployment to Azure App Service\]

### Serverless Compute

[Azure Functions] and [Azure Logic Apps] are serverless platforms,
meaning that customers are billed only for the execution time of their
code. Azure automatically scales compute resources up and down in
response to demand.

### Azure Functions

An Azure Functions instance consists of individual functions that
execute in response to a *trigger*, like a cron job or an HTTP request.
These functions interface with other Azure resources, like Cosmos DB,
through bindings, though resources without default bindings, like Azure
Database for MySQL, can be accessed through language-specific
connectors.

Like Azure App Service, Function Apps support multiple programming
languages. Developers can extend support to unsupported languages
through [custom handlers.]

For long-running, stateful serverless architectures, such as when human
intervention is necessary, Azure provides the Durable Functions
extension. Consult the [documentation] for more information about
architectures with Durable Functions.

#### Resources

-   [Introduction to Azure Functions][Azure Functions]
-   [Azure Functions hosting options]
-   Azure Functions with MySQL Flexible Server samples:
    -   .NET: \[Azure Function with MySQL (.NET)\]
    -   Python: \[Azure Function with MySQL (Python)\]

### Azure Logic Apps

Azure Logic Apps provide integration services for enterprises,
connecting applications that reside on-premises and in the cloud. Azure
Logic Apps *workflows* execute *actions* after a *trigger* is fired.

Azure Logic Apps interface with external systems through *managed
connectors*. Microsoft provides a managed connector for MySQL databases,
but this connector cannot easily be used for Azure Database for MySQL,
as the MySQL managed connector accesses local MySQL databases through a
data gateway.

#### Resources

-   [What is a Azure Logic App?][Azure Logic Apps]
-   [Compare Azure Functions and Azure Logic Apps]
-   \[Logic Apps with MySQL\]

### Microservices

Organizations deploy microservices architectures to offer resilient,
scalable, developer-friendly applications. Unlike traditional monolithic
apps, each service operates independently and can be updated without
redeploying the app. Each service also manages its own persistence
layer, meaning that service teams can perform database schema updates
without affecting other services.

While microservices apps offer major benefits, they require advanced
tools and knowledge of distributed systems. Organizations utilize domain
analysis to define optimal boundaries between services.

On Azure, organizations often deploy microservices to Azure Kubernetes
Service through CI/CD platforms, such as GitHub Actions.

#### Resources

-   [Build microservices on Azure]
-   [Using domain analysis to model microservices]
-   \[Deploying a Laravel app backed by a Java REST API to AKS\]

### API Management

Azure API Management allows organizations to manage and securely expose
their APIs hosted in diverse environments from a central service. API
Management simplifies legacy API modernization, API exposure to multiple
platforms, and data interchange between businesses. Applications call
APIs through an *API gateway* that validates credentials, enforces
quotas, serializes requests in different protocols, and more. Developers
operate their API Management instances through the management plane, and
they expose API documentation for internal and external users through
the Developer portal.

![This image demonstrates the control plane, management plane, and
developer portal elements of API Management.]

Like other Azure resources, API Management offers comprehensive RBAC
support, accommodating internal administrative and development staff and
external users. Moreover, as API Management integrates with APIs hosted
in environments outside Azure, organizations can self-host the API
gateway while retaining the Azure management plane APIs.

#### Resources

-   [About API Management]
-   [Self-hosted gateway overview]

### Event-driven - Azure Event Grid vs. Service Bus vs. Event Hubs

Event-driven apps create, ingest, and process events (state changes) in
real-time. Event producers and event consumers are loosely-coupled, and
every consumer sees every event. Event-driven architectures can perform
complex event handling, such as aggregations over time, and operate with
large volumes of data produced rapidly.

Azure provides different services for relaying *messages* and *events*.
When one system sends a message to another, it expects the receiving
system to handle the message in a particular way and respond. However,
with events, the publisher does not care how the event is handled.

#### Azure Event Grid

Azure Event Grid is a serverless publish-subscribe system that
integrates well with Azure and non-Azure services. As an event-based
system, it simply relays state changes to subscribers; it does not
contain the actual data that was changed.

#### Azure Service Bus

Azure Service Bus provides a *queue* capability to pass each message to
one consumer (first-in-first-out queue). Moreover, Service Bus includes
pub-sub functionality, allowing more than one consumer to receive a
message.

#### Azure Event Hubs

Azure Event Hubs facilitates the ingestion and replay of event data. It
is optimized for processing millions of events per second. Event Hubs
supports multiple consumers through *consumer groups*, which point to
certain locations in the stream.

#### Example Solution

An e-commerce site can use Service Bus to process an order, Event Hubs
to capture site telemetry, and Event Grid to respond to events like an
item was shipped.

### Cron jobs

Developers use cron jobs to run operations on a schedule. They are often
useful for administrative tasks, like taking site backups. Azure
Functions and Logic Apps support cron jobs:

-   [Azure Functions:] The timer trigger executes a function on a
    schedule. Azure Functions supports more complex scheduling tasks,
    like specifying the cron job time precision.
-   [Logic Apps:] Logic Apps supports Recurrence triggers and Sliding
    Window triggers. Recurrence triggers run Logic Apps on a schedule,
    while Sliding Window triggers extend Recurrence triggers by
    executing occurrences that were missed (e.g. the Logic App was
    disabled).

### WebJobs

Azure WebJobs, like Azure Functions, processes events in Azure services.
WebJobs executes code in an App Service instance, and it works best with
the WebJobs SDK. However, WebJobs with the WebJobs SDK only supports C#.

Azure Functions is built on the WebJobs SDK. It offers more developer
flexibility than WebJobs and serverless execution. However, WebJobs
provides more control over how events are received than what Azure
Functions exposes.

### Advanced orchestration - Azure Data Factory

Azure Data Factory supports serverless data integration at scale. Users
author data integration *pipelines* that consist of multiple
*activities*. Activities operate on *datasets* (data sources and sinks).
Data Factory compute environments are known as *integration runtimes*.
Integration runtimes can be hosted in Azure or on-premises.

Azure Data Factory supports both Azure PaaS and generic (on-premises)
MySQL instances.

Developers can execute Data Factory pipelines manually, on a schedule,
or in response to Azure events through the Event Grid integration.

TODO: summary of when to use a service picture

## Introduction to the Sample Application

Instead of learning multiple sample applications, the guide focused on
evolving architecture and deployment strategies. Readers should learn
the sample application structure once and focus on how the application
will need to be modified to fit the deployment model and architecture
evolution.

### Sample Application overview and story

Contoso NoshNow is a delivery service and logistics company focused on
making delicious food accessible to its customers no matter where they
are located. The company started with a simple web application they
could easily maintain and add features to as the business grew. A few
years later, their CIO realized the application performance and their
current on-premises environment were not meeting their business's
growing demand. The application deployment process took hours, yielded
unreliable results, and the admin team could not easily find production
issues quickly. During the busy hours, customers complained the web
application was slow.

The development team knew migrating to Azure could help with these
issues.

### Solution architecture

This is the base application that will be evolved in the future sample
scripts. This PaaS architecture is a couple of steps ahead of the
Classic architecture. The Classic architecture is meant to be an example
of an existing on-premises environment that might be migrated to the
Azure cloud. If you have a new application, you most likely will start
with the PaaS architecture depicted below. This is the easiest path for
a user looking to understand the Azure basics.

![][12]

### Site map

The web application is simple, but covers the fundamentals.

![][13]

### Running the sample lab

You will find the steps to run the lab in the artifacts repo here:
[Sample application tutorial]

TODO: Replace MS repo link

## Deployment evolution options

Let us discuss a journey overview. The journey will start with a classic
deployment to a typical web and database server on a `physical` or
`virtualized` host operating system. Next, explore the evolution of the
potential deployment options from a simple web app deployed to App
Service through a complex progression ending with the application
running as containers in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) with Azure
Database for MySQL hosting the database.

The following scenarios will be discussed and demonstrated as part of
this Azure MySQL developer's guide. All of the following deployments
will utilize the same application and database backend and what is
needed to modify the application to support the targets. Topics will be
discussed in the following simple to complex architecture order.

### Deployment option TOC

1.  [Classic deployment]
2.  [Azure VM Deployment]
3.  [Simple App Service deployment with Azure Database for MySQL
    Flexible Server]
4.  [App Service with In-App MySQL]
5.  [Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD)]
6.  [Containerizing layers with Docker]
7.  [Azure Container Instances (ACI)]
8.  [App Service Containers]
9.  [Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)]
10. [AKS with MySQL Flexible Server]

## Classic deployment

In a classic deployment, development and operations staff will typically
set up a web server (such as Internet Information Services (IIS),
Apache, or NGINX) on physical or virtualized **on-premises** hardware.
Most applications using MySQL as the backend are using PHP as the
frontend (which is the case for the sample application in this guide);
as such, the web server must be configured to support PHP. This includes
configuring and enabling any PHP extensions and installing the required
software to support those extensions.

Some web servers are relatively easier to set up than others. The
complexity depends on what the target operating system is and what
features the application and database are using, for example, SSL/TLS.

In addition to the web server, it is also necessary to install and
configure the physical MySQL database server. This includes creating the
schema and the application users that will be used to access the target
database(s).

As part of our sample application and supporting Azure Landing zone
created by the ARM templates, most of this gets set up automatically.
Once the software is installed and configured, it is up to the developer
to deploy the application and database on the system. Classical
deployments tend to be manual such that the files are copied to the
target production web server and then deploy the database schema and
supported data via MySQL tools or the MySQL Workbench.

The biggest advantage of a classic on-premises deployment is the
infrastructure team will have full control of the environment. The
biggest weakness is they must also maintain every aspect of the
environment as well.

To perform a simulated classical deployment in Azure, go to the [Classic
Deployment to PHP-enabled IIS server] article.

![This image demonstrates the classic deployment.]

## Azure VM deployment

An Azure VM Deployment is very similar to a classical deployment but
rather than deploying to physical hardware, deployment is to virtualized
hardware in the Azure cloud. The operating system and software will be
the same as in a classic deployment, but to open the system to external
apps and users, the virtual networking must be modified to allow
database access to the web server. This is known as the IaaS
(infrastructure as a service) approach.

The advantages of using Azure to host virtual machines include the
ability to enable backup and restore services, disk encryption, and
scaling options that require no upfront costs and provide flexibility in
configuration options with just a few clicks of the mouse. This is in
contrast to the relatively complex and extra work needed to enable these
types of services on-premises.

To perform an Azure VM deployment, reference the [Cloud Deployment to
Azure VM] article.

![This image demonstrates the Azure VM deployment.]

## Simple App Service deployment with Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server

If supporting the operating system and the various other software is not
a preferred approach, the next evolutionary path is to remove the
operating system and web server from the list of setup and configuration
steps. This can be accomplished by utilizing the Platform as a Service
(PaaS) offerings of Azure App Service and Azure Database for MySQL.

However, modernizing an application and migrating them to these
aforementioned services may introduce some relatively small application
changes.

To implement this deployment, reference the [Cloud Deployment to Azure
App Service] article.

![This image demonstrates an App Service deployment that references
Flexible Server.]

## App Service with In-App MySQL

If the target database is relatively small, it can be integrated with
the application-hosting environment. Azure App Service provides for this
integrated hosting and allows for the deployment of the database to the
same App Service and connectivity is provided through the `localhost`
server name.

Administration and integration are accomplished through a built-in
**myphpadmin** interface in the Azure Portal. From this admin portal, it
is possible to run any supported SQL commands to import or export the
database.

The limits of the MySQL instance are primarily driven by the size of the
corresponding [App Service Plan]. The biggest factor about limits is
normally the disk space allocated to any App Services in the Plan. App
Service Plan storage sizes range from 1GB to 1TB; therefore, if a
database will grow past 1TB, it cannot be hosted as InApp and it will
need to be hosted in Flexible Server. For a list of other limitations,
reference [Announcing Azure App Service MySQL in-app].

To implement this deployment, reference the [Cloud Deployment to Azure
App Service with MySQL InApp] article.

![This image demonstrates an App Service deployment with in-app MySQL.]

## Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD)

Doing manual deployments every time a change is made can be a very
time-consuming endeavor. Utilizing an automated deployment approach can
save a lot of time and effort. Azure DevOps and Github Actions can be
used to automatically deploy code and databases each time a new commit
occurs in the codebase.

Whether using Azure DevOps or Github, there will be some setup work to
support the deployments. This typically includes creating credentials
that can connect to the target environment and deploy the release
artifacts.

TODO: Need to replace all relative path links.

To perform deployments using Azure DevOps and GitHub Actions, reference
the [Deployment via CI/CD] article.

![This image demonstrates an App Service deployment with CI/CD.]

## Containerizing layers with Docker

By building the application and database with a specific target
environment in mind, it will need to be assumed that the operations team
will have deployed and configured that same environment to support the
application and data workload. If they missed any items, the application
will either not load or may error during runtime.

Containers solve the potential issue of misconfiguration of the target
environment. By containerizing the application and data, the application
will run exactly as intended. Containers can also more easily be scaled
using tools such as Kubernetes.

Containerizing an application and data layer can be relatively complex,
but once the build environment is set up and working, it is possible to
push container updates very quickly to multi-region load-balanced
environments.

To perform deployments using Docker, reference the [Migrate to Docker
Containers] article. This article containerizes the Laravel sample
application and its MySQL database as separate containers that
communicate through the Docker runtime on the VM instance.

![This image demonstrates a containerized deployment.]

## Azure Container Instances (ACI)

After application and data layers are migrated to containers, a hosting
target must be selected to run the containers. A simple way to deploy a
container is to use Azure Container Instances (ACI).

Azure Container Instances can deploy one container at a time or multiple
containers to keep the application, API, and data contained in the same
resource.

To implement this deployment, reference the [Migrate to Azure Container
Instances (ACI)] article. This article serves the Laravel app and MySQL
database containers on ACI. It also utilizes an Azure File Share to
persist data.

![This image demonstrates a deployment to Azure Container Instances.]

## App Service Containers

Developers can extend the benefits of App Service, like scalability,
elasticity, and simple CI/CD integration, to their containerized apps
using App Service for Containers. This offering supports individual
containers and multi-container apps through Docker Compose files.
Containers give teams added flexibility beyond the platforms supported
directly by App Service.

To perform deployments using Azure App Service containers, reference the
[Migrate to Azure App Service Containers] article. This example deploys
both the database and web app containers to App Service for Containers.

![This image demonstrates a deployment to App Service for Containers.]

## Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)

ACI and App Service Container hosting are effective ways to run
containers, but they do not provide many enterprise features: deployment
across nodes that live in multiple regions, load balancing, automatic
restarts, redeployment, and more.

Moving to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) will enable the application to
inherit all the enterprise features provided by AKS. Moreover,
Kubernetes apps that persist data in MySQL Flexible Server unlock
numerous benefits:

-   In supported regions, co-locating Flexible Server and AKS nodes in
    the same availability zone minimizes latency
-   Applications can host database proxies, like ProxySQL for MySQL, [on
    the same infrastructure as their apps]
-   Teams can manage Flexible Server instances directly from AKS through
    the [Azure Service Operator]

To perform deployments using AKS, reference the [Migrate to Azure
Kubernetes Services (AKS)] article to host the database and web app
containers on an enterprise-ready AKS instance.

![This image demonstrates a deployment to Azure Kubernetes Service
(AKS).]

## AKS with MySQL Flexible Server

Running the database layer in a container is better than running it in a
VM, but not as great as removing all the operating system and software
management components.

To implement this deployment, reference the [Utilize AKS and Azure
Database for MySQL Flexible Server] article. This article extends the
benefits of a PaaS database to the Contoso NoshNow application.

![This image demonstrates an AKS deployment that references Flexible
Server.]

## Start the hands-on-tutorial developer journey

### Development environment setup

The first step to exploring the evolution of MySQL Application
development is to get the environment set up and configure the
infrastructure.

We provided two ARM templates that can be deployed that will set up the
environment. The template is a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) file
that defines the infrastructure and configuration for your project. In
the template, you specify the resources to deploy and the properties for
those resources.

One is a **basic deployment** of services that are exposed to the
internet and the other is a more secure environment that utilizes
private endpoints and VNet integrations. It also includes items like
Azure Firewall and other security-related configurations.

The basic template is the cheaper way to go and should work without any
configuration. The **secure template** will have much higher costs and
will require special configuration and changes to get the samples to
work properly.

#### How to deploy a local ARM template

Below are two methods of deploying an ARM template:

**Azure Portal**

-   Login into the Azure Portal and choose a valid Subscription.
-   Search for 'Deploy a custom template'.

![][14]

-   Select 'Build your own template in the editor'.

![][15]

-   Load the ARM template file from your local drive.

![][16]

-   Navigate to the **template.json** file.
-   Save the template.

![][17]

-   Enter the template parameters.
-   Select the **Review + create** button.
-   Check for validation errors. For example, you may have exceeded your
    quota for that subscription and region.

Another option for deploying infrastructure using a template is to use
Azure CLI or PowerShell. Here is a tutorial guide:

[Tutorial: Deploy a local ARM template]

#### Step 1 - Build the development environment - deploy one of the templates below:

-   [Basic Template]
-   [Secure Template]

#### Step 2 - Explore the development environment

Once the template has been deployed, several resources will be deployed
to support the developer journey. Not all of these will be used but are
provided in case other paths would like to be explored.

As part of the deployment, a **mysqldevSUFFIX-paw1** virtual machine has
been deployed that will be used to perform all the activities. Login to
this virtual machine by doing the following:

-   Open Azure Portal
-   Browse to your resource group
-   Select the **mysqldevSUFFIX-paw1** virtual machine
-   Select **Connect-\>RDP**
-   Select **Download RDP file**
-   Open the downloaded file, select **Connect**
-   For the username, type **wsuser**
-   For the password, type **Solliance123**

Once in the virtual machine, notice that all the necessary development
tools have already been installed. Additionally, the supporting GitHub
repository has been downloaded that includes all the artifacts needed to
start the developer journey. These files can be found on the
**mysqldevSUFFIX-paw1** machine in the
`C:\labfiles\microsoft-mysql-developer-guide` folder.

#### Step 3 - Start your journey!

To reiterate, it is recommended to follow the developer journey from
start to finish in the following order:

##### Deployment option tutorial lab links

TODO: Replace MS repo links

Click the links to complete each journey before going to the next.

1.  [Classic deployment][Classic Deployment to PHP-enabled IIS server]
2.  [Azure VM Deployment][Cloud Deployment to Azure VM]
3.  [Simple App Service Deployment with Azure Database for MySQL
    Flexible Server][Cloud Deployment to Azure App Service]
4.  [App Service with InApp
    MySQL][Cloud Deployment to Azure App Service with MySQL InApp]
5.  [Continuous Integration / Continuous Delivery][Deployment via CI/CD]
6.  [Containerizing layers with Docker][Migrate to Docker Containers]
7.  [Azure Container Instances
    (ACI)][Classic Deployment to PHP-enabled IIS server]
8.  [App Service Containers][Migrate to Azure App Service Containers]
9.  [Azure Kubernetes Service
    (AKS)][Migrate to Azure Kubernetes Services (AKS)]
10. [AKS with MySQL Flexible
    Server][Utilize AKS and Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server]

##### Compute and orchestration tutorial lab links

Additionally, some applications are more than just a web application
with a database backend. Microsoft Azure provides several compute
engines with varying degrees of features and administrative abilities.

It is recommended that each of the above scenarios is executed in the
order shown so that a full picture of the steps involved in the
development evolution is understood. This will also ensure the necessary
pre-requisite Azure services and resources are available for the reader
to progress to the more complex deployment examples.

-   [Azure Functions][18]
    -   [Dotnet]
    -   [Python][19]
    -   [AKS]
    -   [Secured with MSI]
-   [Logic Apps]
-   [Azure Data Factory]
-   [Azure Synapse Analytics]
-   [Azure Batch]

### Sample Application evolution

The Sample Application is written as a two-tier application. This
architecture is great for a proof of concept or an application that has
limited performance needs. Scaling this type of application is difficult
and costly. Developers should consider separating their application's
business logic and data concerns into a [microservice] layer. For more
information on design patterns, review: [Design patterns for
microservices].

After reviewing the need for microservice architecture and the typical
design patterns, you can see how the Sample Application architecture
changed when it utilizes a Java REST microservice architecture. See:
[Deploying a Laravel app backed by a Java REST API to
AKS][Sample application tutorial].

TODO: Replace MS repo link

## Application continuous integration and deployment

Manually deploying an application is not efficient and changes to the
environment need to be tested. Microsoft recommends automating build and
deployment processes to minimize application errors and the time to
release new features. This practice is often termed CI/CD. Below are the
common terms and definitions:

-   **Continuous Integration (CI):** CI tools automatically build, test,
    and merge code that developers push to version control systems. CI
    pipelines run code analysis tools to enforce style guidelines, unit
    tests, integration tests, and more. By constantly merging
    developers' contributions to a shared branch, CI tools improve
    developer efficiency.

-   **Continuous Delivery (CD):** Continuous delivery tools package
    applications in a format that operations teams can deploy to
    production. This typically involves pushing a container image to a
    container registry.

-   **Continuous Deployment (CD):** Continuous deployment automates the
    production deployment process; it does not require an operations
    team to intervene. Continuous deployment processes extend continuous
    delivery.

Implementing build and deployment automation means that development
teams can rapidly serve small features and fixes in production, rather
than waiting for one large, error-prone manual deployment.

### CI/CD tools

Below are some common CI/CD tool options.

#### Jenkins

There are a plethora of CI/CD tools available for local Git
repositories, such as Jenkins. Jenkins is an open-source project that
supports over 1,500 extensions and offers advanced features, such as
parallel test execution.

#### Local Git

Azure App Service supports automated deployments from local Git
repositories: developers simply need to push their code to an App
Service remote repository. Consult the \[Running the sample
application\] for a step-by-step App Service deployment from a local Git
repository.

#### App Service Deployment Slots

App Service instances in the Standard tier or higher support *deployment
slots*, which are separate instances of an app accessible on different
hostnames. Developers can validate app updates in a staging slot before
swapping the updates into the production slot. After swapping an app
from a staging slot to the production slot, the staging slot holds the
old production app, allowing teams to quickly roll back unsuccessful
changes. Swapping a slot has no downtime.

#### App Service Deployment Center

The Deployment Center provides a summary of the deployment methods for
an App Service instance. It also allows developers to quickly create
CI/CD pipelines for code stored in version control systems. App Service
executes pipelines on multiple targets, including GitHub Actions, Azure
Pipelines, and built-in Kudu.

#### GitHub Actions

GitHub Actions runs automated pipelines after an event occurs, such as
when a developer pushes to a repository branch or opens a PR. As GitHub
Actions integrates with GitHub repositories, pipelines can respond to
other repository events, such as when a new issue is opened.

A GitHub repository can have multiple *workflows* (pipelines) written in
[YAML.] At their most basic level, workflows consist of *actions* that
perform some basic task, such as initializing a build tool. Teams can
run GitHub Actions on GitHub runners or self-hosted runners for greater
flexibility.

#### Azure DevOps

Azure DevOps includes multiple tools to improve team collaboration and
automate building, testing, and deploying apps.

-   [Azure Boards:] Azure Boards helps teams plan and track work items.
    It supports multiple [processes.]
-   [Azure Pipelines:] Azure Pipelines is Microsoft's CI/CD pipeline
    platform. It supports deployment to PaaS services, virtual machines,
    and container registries in Azure, other cloud platforms, and
    on-premises. Azure Pipelines integrates with common version control
    systems, like GitHub, GitLab, and Azure Repos.
-   [Azure Test Plans:] Azure Test Plans allows development teams to
    create manual tests, for feedback from developers and stakeholders,
    and automated tests, which are necessary for any CI/CD pipeline.
-   [Azure Repos:] Azure Repos provides Microsoft-hosted public and
    private Git repositories.
-   [Azure Artifacts:] Azure Artifacts allows organizations to share
    packages, such as NuGet and npm packages, internally and publicly.
    Azure Artifacts integrates with Azure Pipelines.

Organizations can quickly start exploring Azure DevOps by creating a
free organization. Azure DevOps' suite of project management, CI/CD, and
testing tools empowers organizations to deploy more frequently, more
quickly, and with fewer failures.

### Infrastructure as Code (IaC)

Infrastructure as Code is a declarative approach to infrastructure
management. Imperative approaches, like Azure PowerShell, are also
supported, though declarative techniques are preferred for their
flexibility. IaC integrates well with CI/CD pipelines, as it ensures
that all application environments are consistent: IaC artifacts, such as
ARM templates and Bicep files, are stored in version control systems.
When development teams make environment changes, they edit IaC
environment definitions, and pipelines automatically alter the cloud
environment to fit the new requirements, irrespective of the existing
state of the cloud environment (*idempotence*).

Both [Azure Pipelines] and [GitHub Actions] support automated ARM
template deployments. Moreover, through the [Azure Service Operator],
development teams can provision Azure resources from Kubernetes,
integrating infrastructure management into existing Kubernetes release
pipelines. [Here] is a Microsoft sample provisioning Flexible Server
from Kubernetes.

## 04 / Summary

This module was designed to bring all the elements of the modernization
and cloud adoption journey together via a progressive set of examples
and learning paths. After completing all of the samples in this module,
a developer will have an understanding of where an application sits in
the modernization process and how to take it to the next level via
containers and container hosting environments.

Although this guide did not go into detail about how to host
applications across multiple cloud providers, this would be the next
logical step in the evolution of MySQL applications and databases.
Several Microsoft partners and vendors (such as Hashicorp), provide
tools and services that help facilitate this final step.

As the world of microservices continues to change and evolve through
more innovative technologies (such as blockchain), other patterns and
steps may emerge in the future that will change the evolutionary course
of your architecture(s).

### Checklist

-   Understand the basic Azure fundamental services.
-   Understand the phases in the developer evolution journey.
-   Be able to evaluate where your application architecture fits in the
    journey.
-   Be cognizant of the changes that are needed for applications to move
    to the next state.
-   Utilize modern development and deployment methodologies.

# 05 / Monitoring

Once the application and database are deployed, the next phase is to
manage the new cloud-based data workload and supporting resources.
Microsoft proactively performs the necessary monitoring and actions to
ensure the databases are highly available and performed at the expecting
level.

## Overview

Proper monitoring management helps with the following:

-   Understanding the resource utilization
-   Workload connection metric analysis
-   Failure analysis and remediation
-   Environment performance analysis and scaling adjustments
-   Historical performance review

Azure can to monitor all of these types of operational activities using
tools such as [Azure Monitor], [Log Analytics], and [Azure Sentinel]. In
addition to the Azure-based tools, external security information and
event management (SIEM) systems can be configured to consume these logs
as well.

Alerts should be created to warn administrators of outages, operational
performance problems, or suspicious activities. If a particular alert
event has a well-defined remediation path, alerts can automatically fire
[Azure runbooks] to address and resolve the event.

This chapter will be focused on these monitoring concepts:

-   Azure Monitor overview and strategy

-   Application monitoring

-   Database monitoring

-   Alerts and strategies

![][20]

### Azure Monitor overview

Azure Monitor is the Azure native platform service that provides a
centralized area for monitoring your Azure resources. It monitors all
layers of the Azure stack, starting with tenant services, such as Azure
Active Directory, subscription-level events, and Azure Service Health.

At the lower levels, it monitors infrastructure resources, such as VMs,
storage, and network resources. Administrators and developers employ
Azure Monitor to consolidate metrics about the performance and
reliability of their various cloud layers, including Azure Database for
MySQL Flexible Server instances. Management tools, such as Microsoft
Defender for Cloud and Azure Automation, also push log data to Azure
Monitor. The service aggregates and stores this telemetry in a log data
store optimized for cost and performance.

![][21]

For more information on what can be monitored, read: [What is monitored
by Azure Monitor?]

## Define your monitoring strategy

Administrators should [plan their monitoring strategy] and resource
configuration for the best results. Some data collection and features
are free, while others have associated costs. Focus on maximizing your
applications' performance and reliability. Identify the data and logs
that indicate the highest potential signs of failure to optimize costs.
See [Azure Monitor Pricing] for more information on planning monitoring
costs.

## Azure Monitor options

![][22]

Azure Monitor Metrics is a feature of Azure Monitor that collects
numeric data from monitored resources into a time-series database.
Metrics in Azure Monitor are lightweight and capable of supporting near
real-time scenarios, so they are helpful for alerting and detecting
issues. You can analyze them interactively by using Metrics Explorer, be
proactively notified with an alert when a value crosses a threshold, or
visualize them in a workbook or dashboard.

[Azure Monitor Metrics overview]

![][23]

The Activity log is a [platform log] in Azure that provides insight into
subscription-level events. The Activity log includes information like
when a resource is modified or when a virtual machine was started.

Event examples:

-   Start or stop a VM.
-   Start or stop an App Service.

[Azure Activity log]

![][24]

Log Analytics is a tool in the Azure portal used to edit and run log
queries with data in Azure Monitor Logs. You can use Log Analytics
queries to retrieve records that match particular criteria. Use the
query results to identify trends, analyze patterns, and provide
insights. Users can create charts to visualize important data in the
portal.

Query examples:

-   HTTP URL requests in the last hour.
-   HTTP status codes in the two days.
-   Call duration and result code.

[Overview of Log Analytics in Azure Monitor]

[Log Analytics tutorial]

![][25]

Workbooks provide a flexible canvas for data analysis and the creation
of rich visual reports within the Azure portal. They allow you to tap
into multiple Azure data sources and combine them into unified
interactive experiences. Visualize data in one interactive report.

[Azure Monitor Workbooks]

![][26]

Azure Resource Health helps you diagnose and get support for service
problems that affect your Azure resources. It reports on the current and
past health of your resources. Resource Health can help you diagnose the
root event causes.

Multiple Azure infrastructure components can trigger Platform events.
The events include both scheduled actions (planned maintenance) and
unexpected incidents (unplanned host reboot or degraded hosted hardware
that is predicted to fail after a specified time window).

Resource Health provides additional details about the event and the
recovery process. **It also enables you to contact Microsoft Support,
even if you don't have an active support agreement.**

Resource issue examples:

-   Unplanned events, for example an unexpected host reboot
-   Planned events, like scheduled host OS updates
-   Events triggered by user actions, for example a user rebooting a
    virtual machine

[Resource Health overview]

## Application monitoring

It is important to monitor the uptime, performance, and understand usage
patterns once an application has been deployed. [Application Insights]
is a feature that provides extensible application performance management
(APM) and monitoring for web-based applications.

Application insights monitoring is very flexible in that it supports a
wide variety of platforms, including .NET, Node.js, Java, and Python as
well as apps hosted on-premises or on any public cloud. Just about any
application can take advantage of this powerful monitoring tool.

Using Application Insights:

-   Install a small instrumentation package (SDK) in your app
-   Or enable Application Insights by using the Application Insights
    agent in Azure.

![][27]

The instrumentation code directs telemetry data to an Application
Insights resource by using a unique instrumentation key and URL.

Example steps to configure WordPress monitoring:

-   Install Application Insights plugin from WordPress Plugins.

-   Create Application Insights.

-   Copy the Instrumentation Key from created Application Insights.

-   Then go to **Settings** and Application Insights inside WordPress,
    and add the key there.

-   Access the website and look for details.

> ![Tip] **Tip**: [Connection Strings] are recommended over
> instrumentation keys.

### Azure Metrics Explorer

[Azure Metrics Explorer] makes it easy to capture performance counters
for resources quickly without adding instrumentation to your application
code. As the following diagram shows, you simply select the resource and
metric and then apply your filters:

![][28]

For example, to capture performance counters for a PHP App Service
resource, simply follow these steps.

-   Determine your scope. Navigate to the App Service in the Azure
    Portal.

-   In the **Monitoring** section, select the **Metrics** item.

-   Select your time range.

    ![][29]

-   Select your **Metric** from the dropdown.

    ![][30]

-   Select your chart choice for the chosen metric.

    ![][31]

-   Create a rule by selecting **New alert rule**.

    ![][32]

### Application Insights cost management

Application Insights comes with a free allowance that tends to be
relatively large enough to cover the development and publishing of an
app for a small number of users. As a best practice, setting a limit can
prevent more data than necessary from being processed and keep costs
low.

Larger volumes of telemetry are charged by the gigabyte and should be
monitored closely to ensure your finance department does not get a
larger than expected Azure invoice. [Manage usage and costs for
Application Insights]

## Monitoring database operations

Azure can be configured to monitor the Flexible server database as well.

### Azure Database for MySQL overview

The Azure Portal resource overview excellent overview of the MySQL
metrics. This high-level dashboard provides insight into the typical
database monitoring counters, like CPU, IO, Query Count, etc.

![][33]

### Metrics

For more specific metrics, navigate to the **Monitoring** section.
Select **Metrics**. More custom granular metrics can be configured and
displayed.

![][34]

See: [Monitor Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Servers with built-in
metrics]

### Diagnostic settings

Diagnostic settings allow you to route platform logs and metrics
continuously to other storage and ingestion endpoints.

![][35]

See: [Set up diagnostics]

### Log Analytics

Once you configure your Diagnostic Settings, you can navigate to the Log
Analytics workspace. You can perform specific filtered queries on
interesting categories. Are you looking for slow queries?

![][36]

Now, you can review the results from your query. There is a wealth of
information about the category.

![][37]

MySQL audit log information is also available.

![][38]

See: [View query insights by using Log Analytics]

### Workbooks

As mentioned previously, Workbooks is a simple canvas to visualize data
from different sources, like Log Analytics workspace. It is possible to
view performance and storage metrics all in a single pane.

![][39]

CPU, IOPS, and other common monitoring metrics are available. You can
also access Query Performance Insight.

![][40]

In addition to the fundamental server monitoring aspects, Azure provides
tools to monitor application query performance. Correcting or improving
queries can lead to significant increases in the query throughput. Use
the [Query Performance Insight tool] to:

-   Analyze the longest-running queries and determine if it is possible
    to cache those items.
-   If they are deterministic within a set period, modify the queries to
    increase their performance.

In addition to the query performance insight tool, `Wait statistics`
provides a view of the wait events that occur during the execution of a
specific query.

> ![Warning] **Warning**: Wait statistics are meant for troubleshooting
> query performance issues. It is recommended to be turned on only for
> troubleshooting purposes.

Finally, the `slow_query_log` can be set to show slow queries in the
MySQL log files (default is OFF). The `long_query_time` server parameter
can be used to log long-running queries (default long query time is 10
sec).

See: [Monitor Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server by using Azure
Monitor workbooks]

### Resource health

It is essential to know if the MySQL service has experienced a downtime
and the related details. Resource health can assist with this
information. If you need additional assistance, a helpful contact
support link available.

![][41]

### Activity logs

This area captures the administrative events captured over a period of
time.

![][42]

The event details can be viewed as well. These details can be extremely
helpful when troubleshooting.

![][43]

### Creating alerts

You can create alerts in a couple of ways. Navigate to the **Alerts**
menu item in the portal and create it manually.

![][44]

You can also create alerts from the Metrics section.

![][45]

Once the alert has been configured, you can create an action group to
send a notification to the operations team.

See: [Set up alerts on metrics for Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible
Server]

### Server Logs

Server logs from Azure Database for MySQL can also be extracted through
the Azure platform *resource logs*, which track data plane events. Azure
can route these logs to Log Analytics workspaces for manipulation and
visualization through KQL.

In addition to Log Analytics, the data can also be routed to Event Hubs
for third-party integrations and Azure storage for long-term backup.

### MySQL audit logs

MySQL has a robust built-in audit log feature. This [audit log feature
is disabled] in Azure Database for MySQL by default. Server level
logging can be enabled by changing the `audit_log_enabled` server
parameter. Once enabled, logs can be accessed through [Azure Monitor]
and [Log Analytics] by turning on [diagnostic logging].

In addition to metrics, it is also possible to enable MySQL logs to be
ingested into Azure Monitor. While metrics are better suited for
real-time decision-making, logs are also useful for deriving insights.
One source of logs generated by Flexible Server is MySQL *audit logs*,
which indicate connections, DDL and DML operations, and more. Many
businesses utilize audit logs to meet compliance requirements, but they
can impact performance.

> ![Warning] **Warning**: Excessive audit logging can degrade server
> performance, so be mindful of the events and users configured for
> logging.

### Enabling audit logs

Audit logging is controlled by the `audit_log_enabled` server parameter
in Flexible Server. Azure provides granularity over the events logged
(`audit_log_events`). User fields include the database users subject to
logging (`audit_log_include_users`), and an explicit list of the
database users exempt from logging (`audit_log_exclude_users`).

> For more details about the logging server parameters, including the
> type of events that can be logged, consult [the
> documentation.][audit log feature is disabled]

## Alerting guidelines

Once monitoring data is configured to flow into Azure Monitor or Log
Analytics, the next step would to be to create alerts when issue data is
generated. The operations team will want to know as quickly as possible
when a pending outage or system issue is developing. Understanding the
symptoms is critical. *"You can't fix what you don't know is broken."*

Alert creation and remediation will take fine-tuning to ensure that
alert fatigue does not set in. Focus less on integrating monitoring with
IT Service Management (ITSM) systems for Incident Management, and seize
on opportunities to let cloud automation replace more expensive service
management processes, thereby eliminating time spent on easily
automatically resolvable alerts and incidents.

**Consider the following principles for determining whether a symptom is
an appropriate candidate for alerting:**

-   Does it matter? Is the issue symptomatic of a real problem or issue
    influencing the overall health of the application? For example, does
    it matter whether the CPU utilization is high on the resource? Or
    that a particular SQL query running on a SQL database instance on
    that resource is consuming high CPU utilization over a sustained
    period? If the CPU utilization condition is a real issue, alerts
    should be fired when it occurs. Although an alert will fire, the
    team will still need to determine what is causing the alert
    condition in the first place. Alerting and notifying on the SQL
    query process utilization issue is both relevant and actionable.

-   Is it urgent? Is the issue real, and does it need urgent attention?
    If so, the responsible team should be immediately notified.

-   Are your customers affected? Are users of the service or application
    affected as a result of the issue?

-   Are other dependent systems affected? Are there alerts from
    dependencies that are interrelated and that can possibly be
    correlated to avoid notifying different teams all working on the
    same problem?

Test and validate the assumptions in a nonproduction environment, and
then deploy them into production. Monitoring configurations are derived
from known failure modes, test results of simulated failures, and
experiences from different members of the team.

Consider automating the remediation steps in Azure.

See: [Successful alerting strategy]

### Azure alerting concepts

#### Metric alerts

Metric alerts assess metric time-series according to defined conditions
and take action. They consist of the following parts:

-   **Alert rules** define the alert conditions. They require the
    following information:

    -   The metric to monitor (e.g. `aborted_connections`)
    -   An aggregation for the selected metric (e.g. `total`)
    -   A threshold for the aggregated value (e.g. `10 connections`)
    -   A time window for the aggregation (e.g. `30 minutes`)
    -   A polling frequency to determine if the previous conditions are
        met (e.g. `5 minutes`)

-   **Action groups** define notification actions, such as emailing or
    texting an administrator, and other actions to take, like calling a
    webhook or [Azure Automation Runbooks]

-   **Alert processing rules** is a *preview* feature that filters
    alerts as they are generated to modify the actions taken in response
    to that alert (i.e. by disabling action groups)

Refer to [Microsoft's tutorial] explaining the configuration of a metric
alert for a Flexible Server instance.

### Best Practices with Alerting Metrics

Here are some scenarios of how aggregating metrics over time generates
insights. Read the [Microsoft blog] for more examples.

-   If there were **10** or more failed connections (total of
    `aborted_connections` in Flexible Server) in the last **30**
    minutes, then send an email alert
    -   This may indicate incorrect credentials or an SSL issue in the
        application
-   If IOPS is **90%** or more of capacity (average of
    `io_consumption_percent` in Flexible Server) for at least **1**
    hour, then call a webhook
    -   Excessive IO usage affects the performance of transactional
        workloads, so [scale storage to increase IOPS capacity or
        provision additional IOPS]
    -   See the linked CLI examples for automatic scaling based on
        metrics

### Webhooks

Webhook action groups send POST requests to configured webhook
endpoints. Action groups can use the [common alert schema] for webhook
calls, or custom JSON payloads. This feature allows Azure Monitor to
[integrate with incident management systems like PagerDuty], [call Logic
Apps], and [execute Azure Automation runbooks].

### Metrics resources

#### Azure CLI

Azure CLI provides the `az monitor` series of commands to manipulate
action groups (`az monitor action-group`), alert rules and metrics
(`az monitor metrics`), and more.

-   [Azure CLI reference commands for Azure Monitor]
-   [Monitor and scale an Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server using
    Azure CLI]

#### Azure Portal

While the Azure Portal does not provide automation capabilities like the
CLI or the REST API, it does support configurable dashboards and
provides a strong introduction to monitoring metrics in MySQL.

-   [Set up alerts on metrics for Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible
    Server][Microsoft's tutorial]
-   [Tutorial: Analyze metrics for an Azure resource]

#### Azure Monitor REST API

The REST API allows applications to access metric values for integration
with other monitoring systems like external SIEM systems. It also allows
applications to manipulate alert rules externally.

To interact with the REST API, applications first need to obtain an
authentication token from Azure Active Directory and then use that token
in API requests.

-   [REST API Walkthrough]
-   [Azure Monitor REST API Reference]

### Azure Service Health

[Azure Service Health] notifies administrators about Azure service
incidents and planned maintenance so actions can be taken to mitigate
downtime. Configure customizable cloud alerts and use personalized
dashboards to analyze health issues, monitor the impact on cloud
resources, get guidance and support, and share details and updates.

## 05 / Summary

Monitoring the performance of your environment is a vital final step
after deployment. This section described how Azure Monitor and Log
Analytics are essential tools to assist in monitoring your applications.

Both the control and data plane should be considered in your monitoring
activities. Platform administrators and database administrators should
be notified of issues before or when they start to happen.

With cloud-based systems, being proactive is a better strategy then
being reactive.

### Checklist

-   Define a monitoring strategy to provide useful insights without
    deteriorating application performance and incurring excessive costs.
    For example, storing slow query logs on Flexible Server instances
    without proper management consumes storage space, affects database
    performance.
-   Configure your Azure resources to emit strategic logs (like MySQL
    Flexible Server slow query logs) and route them to Azure
    destinations, like Log Analytics workspaces.
-   Develop KQL queries to record database performance, query
    performance, and DDL/DML activity.
-   If necessary, configure alert rules for metrics and logs. Azure can
    automatically respond to fired alerts through Azure Automation
    runbooks.
-   Visualize data in Workbooks.

## Recommended content

-   [Best practices for alerting on metrics with Azure Database for
    MySQL monitoring][Microsoft blog]

-   [Configure audit logs (Azure portal)]

-   [Azure Monitor best practices]

-   [Cloud monitoring guide: Collect the right data]

-   [Configure and access audit logs in the Azure CLI]

-   [Write your first query with Kusto Query Language (Microsoft Learn)]

-   [Azure Monitor Logs Overview]

-   [Application Monitoring for Azure App Service Overview]

-   [Configure and access audit logs for Azure Database for MySQL in the
    Azure Portal]

-   [Kusto Query Language (KQL)]

-   [SQL Kusto cheat sheet]

-   [Get started with log queries in Azure Monitor]

-   [Monitor Azure Database for MySQL using Percona Monitoring and
    Management (PMM)]

# 06 / Networking and Security

As mentioned previously, the Azure Database for MySQL network
configuration can adversely affect security, application performance
(latency), and compliance. This section explains the fundamentals of
Azure Database for MySQL networking concepts.

Azure Database for MySQL provides several mechanisms to secure the
networking layers by limiting access to only authorized users,
applications, and devices.

## Public vs. Private Access

As with any cloud based resources, it can be exposed to the internet or
be locked down to only be accessible by Azure connections resources.
However, it doesn't have to be just Azure based resources. VPNs and
Express route circuits can be used to provide access to Azure resources
from on-premises environments as well. The next section describes the
two different ways you can configure your Azure Database for MySQL
instances for network connectivity.

### Public Access

By default, when you create a Azure Database for MySQL, it allows access
to internet based clients, including other Azure services. If this is an
undesirable state, firewall access control lists (ACLs) can limit access
to hosts that fall within the allowed trusted IP address ranges.

The first line of defense for protecting the MySQL instance access is to
implement [firewall rules]. IP addresses can be limited to only valid
locations when accessing the instance via internal or external IPs. If
the MySQL instance is destined to only serve internal applications, then
[restrict public access].

![][46]

Firewall rules are set at the server level, meaning that they govern
network access to all databases on the server instance. While it is best
practice to create rules that allow specific IP addresses or ranges to
access the instance, developers can also enable network access from all
Azure resources. This is useful for Azure services without fixed public
IP addresses, such as [Azure Functions] that use public networks to
access the server and databases.

> **Note:** Restricting access to Azure public IP addresses still
> provides network access to the instance to public IPs owned by other
> Azure customers.

-   Flexible Server
    -   [Manage firewall rules for Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible
        Server using the Azure portal]
    -   [Manage firewall rules for Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible
        Server using Azure CLI]
    -   [ARM Reference for Firewall Rules]
-   Single Server
    -   [Create and manage Azure Database for MySQL firewall rules by
        using the Azure portal]
    -   [Create and manage Azure Database for MySQL firewall rules by
        using the Azure CLI]
    -   [ARM Reference for Firewall Rules][47]

### Private Access

As just discussed, Azure Database for MySQL offerings support public
connectivity by default. However, most organizations will want to
utilize private connectivity which limits access to Azure virtual
networks and resources.

> **Note:** There are many other [basic Azure Networking considerations]
> that must be taken into account that are not the focus of this guide.

## Virtual Network Hierarchy

An Azure virtual network is similar to a network deployed on-premises:
it provides network isolation for workloads. Each virtual network has a
private IP allocation block. Choosing an allocation block is an
important consideration, especially if the environment requires multiple
virtual networks to be joined: the allocation blocks of the virtual
networks cannot overlap. It is best practice to choose allocation blocks
from [RFC 1918.]

> **Note**: When deploying a resource such as a VM into a virtual
> network, the virtual network must be located in the same region and
> Azure subscription as the Azure resource. Review the [Introduction to
> Azure] document for more information about regions and subscriptions.

Each virtual network is further segmented into subnets. Subnets improve
virtual network organization and security, just as they do on-premises.

When moving an application to Azure along with the MySQL workload, it is
likely there will be multiple virtual networks set up in a hub and spoke
pattern that will require [Virtual Network Peering] to be configured.
Virtual networks are joined through *peering*. The peered virtual
networks can reside in the same or different Azure regions.

Lastly, note that it is possible to access resources in a virtual
network from on-premises. Some organizations opt to use VPN connections
through [Azure VPN Gateway], which sends encrypted traffic over the
Internet. Others opt for [Azure ExpressRoute], which establishes a
private connection to Azure through a service provider.

For more Information on Virtual Networks, reference the following:

-   [Introduction to Azure Virtual Networks]
-   Creating virtual networks
    -   [Portal]
    -   [PowerShell]
    -   [CLI]
    -   [ARM Template]

### Flexible Server

Flexible Server supports deployment into a virtual network for secure
access. When enabling virtual network integration, the target virtual
network subnet must be *delegated*, meaning that it can only contain
Flexible Server instances. Because Flexible Server is deployed in a
subnet, it will receive a private IP address. In order to resolve the
DNS names of Azure Database for MySQL instances, the virtual networks
are integrated with a private DNS zone to support domain name resolution
for the Flexible Server instances.

> **Note**: If the Flexible Server client, such as a VM, is located in a
> peered virtual network, then the private DNS zone created for the
> Flexible Server must also be integrated with the peered virtual
> network.

> **Note**: Private DNS zone names must end with
> mysql.database.azure.com. If you are connecting to the Azure Database
> for MySQL - Flexible sever with SSL and are using an option to perform
> full verification (sslmode=VERTIFY_IDENTITY) with certificate subject
> name, use `<servername>`{=html}.mysql.database.azure.com in your
> connection string.

See: [Private DNS zone overview]

For more information on configuring Private Access for Flexible Server,
reference the following:

-   [Azure Portal]
-   [Azure CLI][48]

## Networking best practices for Flexible Server

-   If deploying an application in an Azure region that supports
    *Availability Zones*, deploy the application and the Flexible Server
    instance in the same zone to minimize latency

> For a review of availability zones, consult the [Introduction to Azure
> Database for MySQL][49] document.

-   Organize the components of the application into multiple virtual
    networks, such as in a [hub and spoke configuration.] Employ virtual
    network peering or VPN Gateways to join the application's virtual
    networks.

-   Configure data protection at rest and in motion (see the [Security
    and Compliance document]).

-   [General Azure Networking Best Practices]

    -   Determine IP addressing & subnetting
    -   Determine DNS setup and whether forwarders are needed
    -   Employ tools like network security groups to secure traffic
        within and between subnets

## Security

Moving to cloud-based services doesn't mean the entire internet will
have access to it at all times. Azure provides best-in-class security
that ensures data workloads are continually protected from bad actors
and rogue programs. Additionally, Azure provides several certifications
that ensure your resources are compliant with local and industry
regulations, an important factor for many organizations today.

In today's geopolitical environment, organizations must take proactive
security measures to protect their workloads. Azure simplifies many of
these complex tasks and requirements through the various security and
compliance resources provided out of the box. This section will focus on
many of these tools.

### Encryption

Azure Database for MySQL offers various encryption features including
encryption for data, backups, and temporary files created during query
execution.

Data stored in the Azure Database for MySQL instances are encrypted at
rest by default. Any automated backups are also encrypted to prevent
potential leakage of data to unauthorized parties. This encryption is
typically performed with a key generated when the Azure Database for
MySQL instance is created.

In addition to be encrypted at rest, data can be encrypted during
transit using SSL/TLS and is enabled by default. As previously
discussed, it may be necessary to [modify the applications] to support
this change and also configure the appropriate TLS validation settings.
It is possible to allow insecure connections for legacy applications or
enforce a minimum TLS version for connections but this should be used
sparingly and in highly network-protected environments. Consult the
guides below, as Flexible Server's TLS enforcement status can be set
through the `require_secure_transport` MySQL server parameter.

-   [Flexible Server][50]
-   [Single Server]

### Microsoft Sentinel

Many of the items discussed thus far operate in their own sphere of
influence and are not designed to work directly with each other. Every
secure feature provided by Microsoft Azure and corresponding
applications like Azure Active Directory contain a piece of the security
puzzle.

With all the disparate components, something is needed to bring all the
pieces together to provide a full picture of the security posture and to
allow the quick remediation of issues potentially in an automated way.

[Microsoft Sentinel] is the security tool that provides the needed
connectors to bring all your security log data into one place and then
provide a view into how an attack may have started.

Microsoft Sentinel works in conjunction with Azure Log Analytics and
other Microsoft security services to provide a log storage, query and
alerting solution. Through machine learning, artificial intelligence and
user behavior analytics (UEBA), Microsoft Sentinel can provide a higher
understanding of potential issues or incidents that may not have seen
with a disconnected environment.

### Microsoft Purview

Data privacy has evolved to be a big focused for organization over the
past few years. Determining where sensitive information lives across
your data estate is a requirement in today's privacy centered society.

[Microsoft Purview] can scan your data estate, including your Azure
Database for MySQL instances, to find personally identifiable
information or other sensitive information types. This data can then be
analyzed, classified and lineage defined across your cloud based
resources.

### Security baselines

In addition to all the topics discussed above, the Azure Database for
MySQL [security baseline] is a basic set of potential tasks that can be
implemented on your Azure Database for MySQL instances to further
solidify your security posture.

## 06 / Summary

Protecting the data and control plane is just another piece to the
puzzle of having a robust, secure and performant application
environment.

Deciding what risks the organization can accept will typically help
guide what security features discussed in this section should be enabled
and paid for.

If the data is vital, important and business critical, everything
possible should be done to ensure its protected and secure.

This section discussed many tools Microsoft Azure provided to give an
organization peace of mind that the cloud-based workload will be just as
secure as if running it on-premises.

## Security checklist

-   Utilize the strongest possible authentication mechanisms such as
    Azure Active Directory
-   Enable Advanced Threat Protection and Microsoft Defender for Cloud.
-   Enable all auditing features.
-   Enable encryption at every layer that supports it
-   Consider a Bring-Your-Own-Key (BYOK) strategy.
-   Implement firewall rules.
-   Utilize private endpoints for workloads that do not travel over the
    Internet.
-   Integrate Microsoft Sentinel for advanced SIEM and SOAR
-   Utilize private endpoints and virtual network integration where
    possible

# 07 / Testing

Testing is a cruical part to the application development lifecycle.
Architects, developers and administrators should continually assess and
evaluate their applications for *availability* (minimal downtime) and
*resiliency* (recovery from failure). Microsoft recommends performing
tests regularly and highly suggests automating them to minimize any
errors in the process or setup. These tests can be done at any point in
the application deployment process, potentially the build and deploy
pipelines, and even after the application has been deployed.

This section discusses the various types of tests your Azure database
for MySQL application and database can be utilized to ensure the optimal
performance of your application and database deployments.

## Approaches

### Functional testing

Functional testing ensures that an app functions as documented in the
user and business requirements. Testers do not know how software systems
function; they simply ensure that systems do what they are expected to
do. Functional tests validate things like data limits (field lengths and
validation) and that specific actions are taken in response to various
triggers.

#### Function testing tools

[Selenium] automates functional tests for web apps. Developers author
web application test scripts in several supported languages, like Ruby,
Java, Python, and C#. Once scripts are developed, the Selenium WebDriver
executes the scripts using browser-specific APIs. Teams can operate
parallel Selenium tests on different devices using [Selenium Grid].

To get started with Selenium, developers can install the [Selenium IDE]
to generate testing scripts from browser interactions. The Selenium IDE
is not intended for production tests but can speed up the development of
your test script development tasks.

Teams can place [Selenium tests in Azure DevOps.]. The screenshot below
demonstrates a Selenium test running in a DevOps Pipeline.

![This image demonstrates screenshots from a Selenium test in Azure
DevOps.]

### Resiliency and version testing

Testers can only execute so many test cases within a set period of time.
Users tend to execute application functionality not imagined by the
development or test teams. Allowing real users to test the application
while limiting deployment downtime and version risk can be difficult.
One strategy to test for resiliency is the `blue-green` method, where
the latest version of an application operates in a second production
environment. Developers test the most recent version in the second
production environment by adding some production users to the new
version. If the new version functions adequately, the second environment
begins handling more production user requests. If an unexpected error
occurs, developers can roll back the application by serving requests
from the older environment.

![][51]

> ![Tip] **Tip**: As newer versions of an application often require
> database updates, it is recommended to update the database to support
> the new and previous versions of the software before deploying
> application updates to the second environment.

Azure has the capability to support this type of testing via Deployment
Center, Azure Traffic Manager, and other tools.

The following links provide resources on Blue-green deployment options:

-   [Deployment Center example]
-   [Azure Traffic Manager example]
-   [Application Gateway example]

### Performance testing

#### Load testing

Load testing determines an application's performance as load increases.
Load testing tools typically simulate users or requests, and they help
companies meet their user and business SLAs. Proper load testing
requires knowledge of the load a production system normally experiences
and potential Azure service limits (e.g. [Event Hub throughput by
tier]).

#### Stress testing

Stress testing determines the maximum load a system can handle before
failure. A proper stress testing approach would be to perform stress
testing at different Azure service tiers and determine appropriate
thresholds when scaling within those tiers. This will give
administrators an idea of how to build alerts for monitoring if the
application starts to approach these known limits. Knowing your low and
high stress levels is necessary to minimize costs (by selecting the
appropriate tier and scaling) and thereby provide a positive user
experience.

#### Performance testing tools

### Apache JMeter

[Apache JMeter] is an open source tool to test that systems function and
perform well under load. It can test web applications, REST APIs,
databases, and more. JMeter provides a GUI and a CLI, and it can export
test results in a variety of formats, including HTML and JSON.

The image below demonstrates one approach to operate JMeter at scale
using Azure Container Instances. The `jmeter-load-test` pipeline manages
the test infrastructure and provides the test definition to the **JMeter
Controller**.

![This image demonstrates how to perform a load test at scale using
CI/CD, JMeter, and ACI.]

It is also possible to run JMeter load tests using [Azure Load Testing
Preview.]

### K6

[Grafana K6] is a load testing tool hosted locally or in the cloud.
Developers script tests using ES6 JavaScript. Supporting over 20
integrations, including [Azure DevOps Pipelines], K6 is a popular choice
for many teams.

## Testing data capture tools

### Azure Monitor

Azure Monitor allows developers to collect, analyze, and act on
telemetry. *Application Insights*, a subset of Azure Monitor, tracks
application performance, usage patterns and issues. It integrates with
common development tools, like Visual Studio. Similarly, *Container
insights* measures the performance of container workloads running on
Kubernetes clusters. These powerful tools are backed by Azure Log
Analytics workspaces and the Azure Monitor metrics store.

The image below demonstrates container logs from a containerized
deployment of the ContosoNoshNow sample app running in AKS. These logs
are analyzed in the cluster's Log Analytics workspace.

![This image demonstrates container logs in the AKS cluster's Log
Analytics workspace.]

The image below demonstrates the cluster's maximum CPU usage over a
half-hour period. It utilizes metrics provided by AKS, though more
granular metrics from Container insights can also be used.

![This image demonstrates the maximum CPU usage of the AKS cluster's
nodes, a feature provided by metrics from AKS.]

#### Resources

-   [Supported languages for Azure App Insights]
-   Comparison of *metrics* and *logs* in Azure Monitor
    -   [Azure Monitor Metrics overview]
    -   [Azure Monitor Logs overview]
-   [Monitoring Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) with Azure Monitor]

### Grafana & Prometheus

Prometheus is a powerful tool for developers to capture metrics, store
them in a time-series database on disk, and analyze them through a
custom query language. However, due to the storage of metrics on disk,
Prometheus is not ideal for long-term retention.

Grafana is a visualization tool to create customizable dashboards from
time-series databases. These visualizations supplement the raw metrics
exposed by services such as Prometheus.

The image below demonstrates two charts in Grafana demonstrating the CPU
usage of a Laravel pod in the Contoso Nosh Now AKS deployment. The
`requests` and `limits` values were supplied in the Kubernetes
deployment file.

![This image demonstrates a dashboard in Grafana showing CPU usage for a
pod.]

### Additional Recommended Content

The following resources are helpful for exploring various approaches to
using the previously mentioned tools and concepts.

-   [Using Azure Kubernetes Service with Grafana and Prometheus]

-   [Prometheus Overview]

-   [What is Grafana OSS]

-   [Store Prometheus Metrics with Thanos, Azure Storage and Azure
    Kubernetes Service (AKS)]

-   [What are Azure Pipelines?]

-   [What is Azure Load Testing?]

## 07 / Summary

As just discussed, testing your applications after they have been
deployed to an existing or a new environment is yet another vital step
in the development cycle.

By using containers, developers can be assured that the code will run in
the same environment from which is was designed, however when multiple
containers are involved or are moved from one environment to another
(such as AKS to Azure Service Fabric or some other container cloud
provider), it can't be assured that all the same resources will be
available or that the management plane has been configured properly to
support them. Following the approaches defined in this section will help
developers understand the tools available and what they should be
looking for when designing microservices.

### Checklist

-   Perform functional testing on applications and databases.
-   Perform performance testing on applications and databases.
-   Utilize industry standard tools and benchmarks to ensure accurate
    and comparable results.
-   Integrate reporting tools such as Azure Monitor, Grafana or
    Promethus into your testing suites.

# 08 / Performance + Optimization

After organizations migrate their MySQL workloads to Azure, they unlock
turnkey performance monitoring solutions, scalability, and the benefits
of Azure's global footprint. Operation teams must establish performance
baselines before fine-tuning their MySQL instances to ensure that
changes, especially those that require application downtime, are worth
doing. If you can, simulate your workload in a test environment and make
adjustments there first before implementing changes in a production
environment.

Before jumping into specific and time consuming performance
enhancements, there are some general tips that can improve performance
in your environment that this section will explore.

## General performance tips

The following are some basic tips for how to increase or ensure
performance of your Azure Database for MySQL applications and database
workloads:

-   Ensure the input/output operations per second (IOPS) are sufficient
    for the application needs. Keep the IO latency low.
-   Create and tune the table indexes. Avoid full table scans.
-   Performance regular database maintenance.
-   Make sure the application/clients (e.g. App Service) are physically
    located as close as possible to the database. Reduce network
    latency.
-   Use accelerated networking for the application server if you are
    using Azure virtual machine, Azure Kubernetes, or App Services.
-   Use connection pooling when possible. Avoid creating new connections
    for each application request. Use ProxySQL which provides built-in
    connection pooling and load balance your workload to multiple read
    replicas as required on demand with any changes in application code.
-   Set timeouts when creating transactions.
-   Set up a [read replica] for read only queries and analytics.
-   Consider using a query caching solutions like Heimdall Data Proxy.
    Limit connections based on per user and per database. Protect the
    database from being overwhelmed by a single application or feature.
-   Temporarily scale your Azure Database for MySQL resources for taxing
    tasks. Once your task is complete, scale it down.

See [Best practices for optimal performance of your Azure Database for
MySQL]

## Monitoring hardware and query performance

As previously discussed in the monitoring section of this guide,
monitoring metrics such as the `cpu_percent` or `memory_percent` can be
important when deciding to upgrade the database tier. Consistently high
values for extended periods of time could indicate a tier upgrade is
necessary.

Additionally, if CPU and memory do not seem to be the issue,
administrators can explore database-based options such as indexing and
query modifications for poor-performing queries.

To find poor-performing queries, run the following:

``` kql
AzureDiagnostics
| where ResourceProvider == "MICROSOFT.DBFORMYSQL"
| where Category == 'MySqlSlowLogs'
| project TimeGenerated, LogicalServerName_s, event_class_s, start_time_t , query_time_d, sql_text_s
| top 5 by query_time_d desc
```

## Upgrading the tier

*Know your workload!* The Azure portal and the CLI can be used to scale
between the `Burstable`, `General Purpose`, and `Memory Optimized`
tiers. Tier scaling requires restarting the Flexible Server instance,
causing 60-120 seconds of downtime. If your application does not require
a significant compute, use the `Burstable` SKU. When your application
requires more performance during certain times, Azure Database for MySQL
can increase performance automatically and reduce when you do not need
it. Organizations can save operational costs.

## Scaling the server

Within the tier, it is possible to scale cores and memory to the minimum
and maximum [limits] allowed in that tier. If monitoring shows a
continual maxing out of CPU or memory, scale up to meet demand.

You can also adjust the IOPS for better transactions per second (TPS)
performance. You can use an [Azure CLI
script][Monitor and scale an Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server using Azure CLI]
to monitor relevant metrics and scale the server.

## Azure Database for MySQL Memory Recommendations

An Azure Database for MySQL performance best practice is to allocate
enough RAM so that your working set resides almost completely in memory.
Check if the memory percentage being used in reaching the limits using
the metrics for the Azure Database for MySQL server.

As previously discussed, set up alerts on such numbers to ensure that as
the servers reaches limits you can take prompt actions to fix it. Based
on the limits defined, check if scaling up the database SKU---either to
higher compute size or to better pricing tier, which results in a
dramatic increase in performance.

Scale up until your performance numbers no longer drops dramatically
after a scaling operation. For information on monitoring a DB instance's
metrics, see [MySQL DB Metrics].

## Moving regions

It is possible to move a geo-redundant Flexible Server instance to a
[paired Azure region] through geo-restore. Geo-restore creates a new
Flexible Server instance in the paired Azure region based on the current
state of the database: point-in-time restore is not supported.

Geo-restore can be used to recover from a service outage in the primary
region. However, the Flexible Server instance created in the paired
region can only be configured with locally redundant storage, as its
paired region (the old primary region) is down.

To minimize downtime, Flexible Server configuration settings, like VNet
or firewall ACLs, can be kept intact.

## Server parameters

![][52]

As part of the migration, the on-premises [server parameters][53] were
likely modified to support a fast egress. Also, modifications were made
to the Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server parameters to support a
fast ingress. The Azure server parameters should be set back to their
original on-premises workload-optimized values after the migration.

However, be sure to review and make server parameters changes that are
appropriate for the workload and the environment. Some values that were
great for an on-premises environment, may not be optimal for a
cloud-based environment. Additionally, when planning to migrate the
current on-premises parameters to Azure, verify that they can be set.

Some parameters are not allowed to be modified in Azure Database for
MySQL Flexible Server so verify that the strategy you are about to
implement can actually be done in Azure Database for MySQL.

## Upgrade Azure Database for MySQL versions

Sometimes, just upgrading versions may be the solution to an issue.
Flexible Server supports MySQL versions 5.7 and 8.0. Migrating from
on-premises MySQL 5.x to MySQL Flexible Server 5.7 or 8.0 delivers major
performance improvements. Consult the [Microsoft documentation] for more
information regarding MySQL Azure migrations, including major version
changes.

## Customizing the container runtime

When using containers for your application, simply choosing a platform
to run your MySQL and PHP containerized applications plays an important
part in how much performance can be achieved. In most cases, creating a
custom PHP container can improve performance up to 6x over the
out-of-the-box official PHP containers. As a developer, it is important
to determine if the effort of building a custom image will be worth the
performance gain from the work. Also keep in mind that later versions of
PHP tend to perform better than older versions.

Custom environments can be tested against standard workloads by running
various benchmarks using the [PHPBench tool].

## Running MySQL Benchmarks

There are several tools that can be used to benchmark MySQL
environments. Here are a few that can be used to determine how well an
instance is performing:

-   [DBT2 Benchmark] - DBT2 is an open source benchmark that mimics an
    OLTP application for a company owning large amounts of warehouses.
    It contains transactions to handle New Orders, Order Entry, Order
    Status, Payment and Stock handling

-   [SysBench Benchmark Tool] - Sysbench is a popular open source
    benchmark to test open source DBMSs.

More Common sets of tests typically utilize TPC benchmarks such as
[TPC-H] but there are many more [types of tests] that can be run against
the MySQL environment to test against specific workloads and patterns.

## Instrumenting vital server resources

The [MySQL Performance Schema] **sys_schema** provides a way to inspect
internal server execution events at runtime. The MySQL
performance_schema provides instrumentation for many vital server
resources such as memory allocation, stored programs, metadata locking,
etc. However, the performance_schema contains more than 80 tables, and
getting the necessary information often requires joining tables within
the performance_schema, and tables from the information_schema. Building
on both performance_schema and information_schema, the sys_schema
provides a powerful collection of user-friendly views in a read-only
database and is fully enabled in Azure Database for MySQL version 5.7.

![][54]

> ![Warning] **Warning**: The Performance Schema avoids using mutexes to
> collect or produce data, so there are no guarantees of consistency and
> results can sometimes be incorrect. Event values in performance_schema
> tables are nondeterministic and nonrepeatable.

## Server Parameters

MySQL server parameters allow database architects and developers to
optimize the MySQL engine for their specific application workloads. One
of the advantages of Flexible Server is the large number of server
parameters exposed by the service. Some important exposed parameters are
listed below, but storage and compute tiers affect the possible
parameter values. Consult the [Microsoft documentation][53] for more
information.

Some parameters that cannot be configured at the server level can be
configured at the connection level. Moreover, *dynamic* parameters can
be changed without restarting the server, while modifying *static*
parameters warrants a restart.

-   [log_bin_trust_function_creators] is enabled by default and
    indicates whether users can create triggers

-   [innodb_buffer_pool_size] indicates the size of the buffer pool, a
    cache for tables and indexes

    > For this parameter, consult the [Microsoft documentation][53], as
    > database compute tier affects the parameter value range

-   [innodb_file_per_table] affects where table and index data are
    stored

### Tools to Set Server Parameters

Standard Azure management tools, like the Azure portal, Azure CLI, and
Azure PowerShell, allow for configuring server parameters.

-   [Use Azure portal to configure server parameters]
-   [User Azure CLI to configure server parameters]

### Server Parameters Best Practices

The server parameters below may provide performance improvements for an
application workload; however, before modifying these values in
production, verify that they yield performance improvements without
compromising application stability.

-   Enable thread pooling by setting `thread_handling` to
    `pool-of-threads`: Thread pooling improves concurrency by serving
    connections through a pool of worker threads, instead of creating a
    new thread to serve each connection. Enabling thread pooling
    improves performance for transactional workloads, as connections are
    short-lived

    -   The degree of concurrency is set through the `thread_pool_size`
        parameter
    -   Only supported in MySQL 8.0

    ![This graph demonstrates the performance benefits of thread pooling
    for a Flexible Server instance.]

    The graph above demonstrates the performance improvements of thread
    pooling for a 16 vCore, 64 GiB memory Flexible Server instance. The
    x-axis represents the number of connections, and the y-axis
    represents the number of queries served per second (QPS). Read the
    associated [Microsoft TechCommunity post] for more details

-   Enable InnoDB buffer pool warmup by setting
    `innodb_buffer_pool_dump_at_shutdown` to `ON`: InnoDB buffer pool
    warmup loads data files from disk after a restart and before
    receiving queries on that data. This improves the latency of the
    first queries executed against the database after a restart, but it
    does increase the server's start-up time

    -   Microsoft only recommends this change for database instances
        with more than 335 GB of provisioned storage
    -   Learn more from the [Microsoft documentation][55]

## Caching

Utilizing resources such as CPU, memory, disk (read/write access) and
network can factor into how long an application request takes to
process. Being able to remove actions that are deterministic (ex: the
same function/API call does not change), within a certain set of time is
an important pattern to implement in your various application layers.
Ultimately, caching saves time, either for the application itself, or
for the users using the application.

Caching is the process of preventing things that don't need to happen
more than once or can be more efficiently delivered to a user via some
kind of time savings.

### Disk cache

When memory is not readily available or some items are just too big to
stream over a network connection due to latency issues, it may be
appropriate to consider copying data to disk. It is important to test
whether a repeated operation takes more time to access from disk than it
does to do the operation.

This is a common pattern for when applications have users scattered all
over the world. By distributing the same files and content to locations
that are closest to those users, the users will see improved latency and
perceived application performance.

### Memory cache

Storing data in memory provides much faster access than if it is
retrieved from disk locally or over a high-latency network.

#### Local memory

If an application has access to local memory, it can utilize that local
memory to cache its data and access it more quickly than going to disk
or over the network. However, if the memory available to the application
is less than ideal (potentially driven by operating system or hardware
limits), it will be necessary to find another place to store the data.
If the application needs the speed of memory access rates, it will be
necessary to send the data to a memory server.

#### Redis Cache

A common piece of software that helps with caching is called [Redis
cache]. As with all pieces of software, it can be run on-premises, in a
virtual machine in the cloud (IaaS), or even as a platform-as-a-service
offering (PaaS).

Redis cache works by putting data into memory via key/value pairs. The
application will typically serialize the data and then hand it off to
Redis for quick retrieval later. The Redis cache should be close to the
application so that it can be queried, retrieved, and forwarded quickly.

[Azure Cache for Redis] is a platform as a service Microsoft Azure
hosted Redis environment that provides several levels of service such as
[Enterprise, Premium, Standard, and Basic tiers].

## Azure Content Delivery Network

An Azure Content Delivery Network (CDN) utilizes distributed
point-of-presence (POP) servers to serve cached static web content and
optimize the delivery of dynamic content to users. As shown in the
diagram below, users request static content from their nearest POP,
which will serve content from its cache. If the local POP servers do not
have the desired asset, they will request the site (origin) web server
and cache it for the time-to-live (TTL) period.

![This image demonstrates how Azure CDN POPs optimize content delivery.]

Azure CDN also supports dynamic site acceleration, which optimizes the
network path from clients to the server through POP sites, prefetches
images and scripts, and more.

### Using Azure CDN in Web Apps

Azure App Service natively supports integrating with Azure CDN. Refer to
the digital marketing sample in the \[MySQL architectures\] section for
a practical example involving Azure CDN and a content management system.
For non-App Service workloads, Azure CDN is compatible with any public
web server.

## 08 / Summary

After developers benchmark their MySQL Flexible Server environments,
they can tune server parameters, scale compute tiers, and optimize their
application containers to improve performance. Through Azure Monitor and
KQL queries, teams monitor the performance of their workloads.

Caching is a very common way to increase the performance of
applications. Through a disk- or memory-based cache, a developer and
architect should always be on the lookout for deterministic areas that
can be cached. Azure CDN provides caching via POP servers to users of
global-scale web apps.

Lastly, an important balance should be struck between performance of the
cache and costs.

### Checklist

-   Monitor for slow queries.
-   Periodically review the Performance Insight dashboard.
-   Utilize monitoring to drive tier upgrades and scale decisions.
-   Consider moving regions if the users' or application's needs change.
-   Adjust server parameters for the running workload.
-   Utilize caching techniques to increase performance.
-   Get data closer to users by implementing content delivery networks.

# 09 / Troubleshooting

As applications are running and executing in cloud environments it is
always a possibility that something unexpected can occur. This section
details a few common issues and the troubleshooting steps for each.

## Common MySQL issues

Debugging operational support issues can be time consuming. As previous
discussed, configuring the right monitoring and alerting can help
provide useful error messages and clues to the potential problem
area(s).

### Connectivity issues

Both server misconfiguration issues and network access issues can
prevent clients from connecting to a Azure Database for MySQL instance.
For some helpful connectivity suggestions, reference the [Troubleshoot
connection issues to Azure Database for MySQL] and [Handle transient
errors and connect efficiently to Azure Database for MySQL] articles.

#### Misconfiguration

-   [Error 1184][]: This error occurs after a user authenticates with
    the database instance, but before they execute SQL statements. The
    `init_connect` server parameter includes statements that execute
    before sessions are initiated. Consequently, erroneous SQL
    statements in `init_connect` prevent clients from connecting.
    -   **Resolution**: Reset the value of `init_connect` using the
        Azure portal or SQL.
-   Administrators use the database admin user specified during server
    creation to create new databases and add new users. If the admin
    user credentials were not recorded, administrators can easily reset
    the admin password using the Azure portal.
    -   Logging in with the administrator account can help debug other
        access issues, like confirming if a given user exists.

#### Network access issues

-   By default, Flexible Server only supports encrypted connections
    through the TLS 1.2 protocol; clients using TLS 1.0 or 1.1 will be
    unable to connect unless explicitly enabled. If it is not possible
    to change the TLS protocol used by an application, then [change the
    Flexible Server instance's supported TLS versions.][50]

-   If connecting to Flexible Server via public access, ensure that
    firewall ACLs permit access from the client.

-   Ensure that corporate firewalls do not block outbound connections to
    port 3306.

-   Use a fully qualified domain name instead of an IP address in
    connection strings. This is especially important with Azure Database
    for MySQL Single Server instances, which use gateways to route
    incoming requests to database servers. It is possible to use the
    gateway public IP address in your applications.

    > ![Warning] **Warning:** However, as Microsoft plans to [retire
    > older gateways], you are responsible for updating the gateway IP
    > address in your applications. It is less error-prone to work with
    > the FQDN.

-   Use [Azure Network Watcher] to debug traffic flows in virtual
    networks. Note that it does not support PaaS services, but it is
    still a useful tool for IaaS configurations

    -   Network Watcher works well with other networking utilities, like
        the Unix `traceroute` tool

### Resource issues

If the application experiences transient connectivity issues, perhaps
the resources of the Azure Database for MySQL instance are constrained.
Monitor resource usage and determine whether the instance needs to be
scaled up.

### Unsupported MySQL features

Operating in a cloud environment means that certain features that
function on-premises are incompatible with Azure Database for MySQL
instances. While Flexible Server has better feature parity with
on-premises MySQL than Single Server, it is important to be aware of any
limitations.

-   Azure Database for MySQL does not support the MySQL `SUPER`
    privilege and the `DBA` role. This may affect how some applications
    operate.

    -   [Error 1419][]: By default, MySQL instances with binary logging
        enabled for replication require function creators to have the
        `SUPER` privilege to avoid privilege escalation attacks.
        -   **Resolution**: Azure suggest setting the
            `log_bin_trust_function_creators` parameter to `1`, as Azure
            insulates against threats that exploit the binary log.
    -   [Error 1227][]: This error occurs when creating stored
        procedures or views with `DEFINER` statements.
        -   **Resolution**: If you encounter this error while migrating
            schema objects from an on-premises MySQL instance, remove
            the `DEFINER` statements manually from the database dump.

-   Direct file system access is not available to clients. This means
    that `SELECT ... INTO OUTFILE` commands are unsupported.

-   Only the `InnoDB` and `MEMORY` storage engines are supported. This
    may affect older data warehousing and web applications based on the
    non-transactional `MyISAM` engine. Consult the [MySQL
    documentation][56] to learn how to convert your MyISAM tables to
    InnoDB and make them run optimally.

### Platform issues

-   On occasion, Azure experiences outages. Use [Azure Service Health]
    to determine if an Azure outage impacts MySQL workloads in your
    region or datacenter.

-   Azure's periodic updates can impact the availability of
    applications. Flexible Server allows administrators [to set custom
    maintenance schedules.][User-scheduled service maintenance:]

-   Implement retry logic in your applications to mitigate transient
    connectivity issues:

    -   To provide resiliency against more severe failures, like Azure
        service outages, implement the [circuit breaker pattern] to
        avoid wasting application resources on operations that are
        likely to fail

## Troubleshoot app issues in Azure App Service

-   **Enable web logging.** Azure provides built-in diagnostics to
    assist with [debugging an App Service app].

-   Network requests taking a long time? [Troubleshoot slow app
    performance issues in Azure App Service]

-   In Azure App Service, certain settings are available to the
    deployment or runtime environment as environment variables. Some of
    these settings can be customized when configuring the app settings.
    [Environment variables and app settings in Azure App Service]

-   [Azure App Service on Linux FAQ]

## App debugging

Following software development best practices makes your code simpler to
develop, test, debug, and deploy. Here are some strategies to resolve
application issues.

-   Use logging utilities wisely to help troubleshoot failures without
    impairing app performance. Structured logging utilities, like PHP's
    native logging functions or third-party tools, such as [KLogger],
    can write logs to the console, to files, or to central repositories.
    Monitoring tools can parse these logs and alert anomalies.

-   In development environments, remote debugging tools like [XDebug]
    may be useful. You can set breakpoints and step through code
    execution. [Apps running on Azure App Service PHP and Container
    instances can take advantage of XDebug.]

    -   Users of Visual Studio Code can install XDebug's [PHP Debug
        extension].

-   To debug slow PHP applications, consider using Application
    Performance Monitoring solutions like [Azure Application
    Insights][Application Insights], which integrates with Azure
    Monitor. Here are a few common culprits for low-performing PHP apps.

    -   Executing database queries against tables that are indexed
        inefficiently
    -   Configuring web servers poorly, such as by choosing a suboptimal
        number of worker processes to serve user requests
    -   Disabling [opcode caching], requiring PHP to compile code files
        to opcodes every request

-   Write tests to ensure that applications function as intended when
    code is modified. Review the [07 / Testing] document for more
    information about different testing strategies. Tests should be
    included in automated release processes.

-   Generally, all cloud applications should include connection [retry
    logic], which typically responds to transient issues by initiating
    subsequent connections after a delay.

### Additional support

-   In the Azure portal, navigate to the **Diagnose and solve problems**
    tab of your Azure Database for MySQL instance for suggestions
    regarding common connectivity, performance, and availability issues.

    ![This image demonstrates the Diagnose and solve problems tab of a
    Flexible Server instance in the Azure portal.]

    This experience integrates with Azure Resource Health to demonstrate
    how Azure outages affect your provisioned resources.

    ![This image demonstrates how Azure Resource Health correlates Azure
    service outages with the customer's provisioned resources.]

-   If none of the above resolve the issue with the MySQL instance,
    [send a support request from the Azure portal.]

### Opening a support ticket

If you need assistance with an Azure Database for MySQL issue, [open an
Azure support ticket][send a support request from the Azure portal.]
with Microsoft. Be sure to select the correct product and provide as
much information as possible so the proper resources is assigned to your
ticket.

![][57]

### Recommended content

-   [Troubleshoot connection issues to Azure Database for MySQL]

-   [Handle transient errors and connect efficiently to Azure Database
    for MySQL]

-   [Troubleshoot errors commonly encountered during or post migration
    to Azure Database for MySQL]

-   [Troubleshoot data encryption in Azure Database for MySQL]

-   [Azure Community Support] Ask questions, get answers, and connect
    with Microsoft engineers and Azure community experts

## 09 / Summary

This section helped pinpoint some of the most common issues a team may
run into when hosting your MySQL based applications in the cloud. These
included items from connectivity, deployment and performance.

### Checklist

-   Understand the OSI model and how it can help troubleshoot issues
-   Start at the bottom of the OSI model and work your way up
-   Network connectivity issues can exist anywhere between client and
    server
-   Be sure a clear plan of attack has been developed for resolving
    issues
-   Utilize logging to assist in troubleshooting activities

# 10 / Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery

Businesses implement *business continuity* (BC) and *disaster recovery*
(DR) strategies to minimize disruptions. While *business continuity*
emphasizes preserving business operations through policies, *disaster
recovery* explains how IT teams will restore access to data and
services.

## High availability

Flexible Server implements high availability by provisioning another VM
to serve as a standby. It is possible to provision this secondary
Flexible Server VM in another availability zone, as shown below. This HA
option is only supported for Azure regions with availability zones.
While this option does provide redundancy against zonal failure, there
is more latency between the zones that affects replication.

![This image demonstrates Zone-Redundant HA for MySQL Flexible Server.]

To compensate for the latency challenges, Azure provides HA within a
single zone. In this configuration, both the primary node and the
standby node are in the same zone. All Azure regions support this mode.
Of course, it does not insulate against zonal failure.

![This image demonstrates HA for MySQL Flexible Server in a single
zone.]

Both of these HA solutions have transparent failover: in a failover
event, the standby server becomes the primary server, and DNS records
point to the new primary. If the old primary comes back online, it
becomes the secondary.

Critically, note that replication is not synchronous to avoid the
performance penalty of synchronous replication. A transaction committed
to the primary node is not necessarily committed to the secondary node;
the secondary node is brought up to the latest committed transaction
during failover.

To learn more about HA with MySQL Flexible Server, consult the
[documentation.]

### Implementing cross-region high availability

Flexible Server does not currently support cross-region high
availability. However, it is possible to achieve this using MySQL native
replication, instead of replicating log files at the Azure storage
level. The image below demonstrates two Flexible Server instances
deployed in two virtual networks in two Azure regions. The virtual
networks are peered to provide network connectivity for MySQL native
replication. As the image indicates, developers can employ MySQL native
replication for scenarios like replicating from an on-premises primary
to an Azure secondary.

One disadvantage of this setup is that it is customer-managed.

![This image demonstrates a possible cross-region HA scenario using two
virtual networks.]

## Replication

Replication in Flexible Server allows applications to scale by providing
**read-only** replicas to serve queries while dedicating write
operations to the main Flexible Server instance. Replication from the
main instance to the read replicas is asynchronous: consequently, there
is a lag between the source instance and the replicas. Microsoft
estimates that this lag typically ranges between a few seconds to a few
minutes.

> Replication is not a high availability strategy: consult the BCDR
> document for more details. Replication is designed to improve
> application performance, so it does not support automatic failover or
> bringing replicas up to the latest committed transaction during
> failover.

Replication is only supported in the General Purpose and Memory
Optimized tiers of Flexible Server. Also, it is possible to promote a
read replica to being a read-write instance; however, that severs the
replication link between the main instance and the former replica, as
the former replica cannot return to being a replica.

## Read replicas

[Read replicas][58] can be used to increase the MySQL read throughput,
improve performance for regional users, and implement disaster recovery.
When creating one or more read replicas, be aware that additional
charges will apply for the same compute and storage as the primary
server.

## Deleted servers

If an administrator or bad actor deletes the server in the Azure Portal
or via automated methods, all backups and read replicas will also be
deleted. [Resource locks][59] must be created on the Azure Database for
MySQL resource group to add an extra layer of deletion prevention to the
instances.

## Regional failure

Although rare, if a regional failure occurs, geo-redundant backups or a
read replica can be used to get the data workloads running again. It is
best to have both geo-replication and a read replica available for the
best protection against unexpected regional failures.

> **Note:** Changing the database server region also means the endpoint
> will change and application configurations will need to be updated
> accordingly.

### Use fully qualified domain names in connection strings

-   Use a fully qualified domain name instead of an IP address in
    connection strings. If network changes are made causing IP addresses
    change, your application should be operationally. Administrators do
    not have locate and change dependent application configuration.

## Load Balancers

If the application is made up of many different instances around the
world, it may not be feasible to update all of the clients. Utilize an
[Azure Load Balancer] or [Application Gateway] to implement a seamless
failover functionality. Although helpful and time-saving, these tools
are not required for regional failover capability.

## Use cases

Often, developers use load balancers, like ProxySQL, to direct read
operations to read replicas automatically. ProxySQL can [run on an Azure
VM] or [Azure Kubernetes
Service.][on the same infrastructure as their apps]

Moreover, analytical systems often benefit from read replicas. BI tools
can connect to read replicas, while data is written to the main instance
and replicated to the read replicas asynchronously.

Using read replicas also helps implement microservices architectures.
The image below demonstrates how APIs that solely access data can
connect to read replicas, while APIs that modify data reference the main
instance.

![This image demonstrates a possible microservices architecture with
MySQL read replicas.]

## Flexible Server resources

-   [Azure Portal][60]
-   [Azure CLI][61]

## Backup and restore

As with any mission-critical system, having a backup and restore as well
as a disaster recovery (BCDR) strategy is an important part of the
overall system design. If an unforeseen event occurs, administrators
should have the ability to restore data to a point in time called the
Recovery Point Objective (RPO) and in a reasonable amount of time called
the Recovery Time Objective (RTO).

### Backup

Azure Database for MySQL takes automatic backups of data and transaction
log files. These backups can be stored in locally-redundant storage
(replicated multiple times in a datacenter); zone-redundant storage
(multiple copies are stored in two separate availability zones in a
region); and geo-redundant storage (multiple copies are stored in two
separate Azure regions).

Azure Database for MySQL supports automatic backups for 7 days by
default. It may be appropriate to modify this to the current maximum of
35 days. It is important to be aware that if the value is changed to 35
days, there will be charges for any extra backup storage over 1x of the
storage allocated. Data file backups are taken once daily, while
transaction log backups are taken every five minutes.

Find additional storage pricing details for Flexible Server [here.]

There are several current limitations to the database backup feature as
described in the [Backup and restore in Azure Database for MySQL] docs
article. It is important to understand them when deciding what
additional strategies should be implemented.

Some items to be aware of include:

-   No direct access to the backups
-   Tiers that allow up to 4TB have a full backup once per week,
    differential twice a day, and logs every five minutes
-   Tiers that allow up to 16TB have snapshot-based backups

> **Note:** [Some regions] do not yet support storage up to 16TB.

### Restore

Redundancy (local or geo) must be configured during server creation.
However, a geo-restore can be performed and allows the modification of
these options during the restore process. Performing a restore operation
will temporarily stop connectivity and any applications will be down
during the restore process.

During a database restore, any supporting items outside of the database
will also need to be restored. Review the migration process. See
[Perform post-restore tasks] for more information.

Lastly, note that performing a restore from a backup provisions a new
Flexible Server instance. Most of the new server's configuration is
inherited from the old server, though it depends on the type of restore
performed.

Learn more about backup and restore in Flexible Server from the
[Microsoft documentation.]

### Flexible Server resources

-   [Point-in-time restore with Azure Portal]
-   [Point-in-time restore with CLI]
-   [Azure CLI samples for Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server]

## Service maintenance

Like any Azure service, Flexible Server receives patches and
functionality upgrades from Microsoft. To ensure that planned
maintenance does not blindside administrators, Azure provides them
control over when patching occurs.

With Flexible Server, administrators can specify a custom **Day of
week** and **Start time** for maintenance, or they can let the platform
choose a day of week and time. If the maintenance schedule is chosen by
the platform, maintenance will always occur between 11 PM and 7 AM in
the region's time zone.

> See [this] list from Microsoft to determine the physical location of
> Azure regions and thus the regional time zone.

Azure always rolls out updates to servers with platform-managed
schedules before instances with custom schedules. Platform-managed
schedules allow developers to evaluate Flexible Server feature
improvements in non-production environments. Moreover, maintenance
events are relatively infrequent; there are typically 30 days of gap
unless a critical security fix must be applied.

> As a general rule, only set a maintenance schedule for production
> instances.

### Notifications

In most cases, irrespective of whether using a platform-managed or
custom maintenance schedule, Azure will notify administrators five days
before a maintenance event. The exception is critical security fixes.

Use Azure Service Health to view upcoming infrastructure updates and set
notifications. Refer to the links at the end of the document.

### Differences for Single Server

Single Server uses a gateway to access database instances, unlike
Flexible Server. These gateways have public IP addresses that are
retired and replaced, which may impede access from on-premises. Azure
notifies customers about gateway retirements three months before. Learn
more [here.][62]

Single Server does not support custom schedules for maintenance. Azure
notifies administrators 72 hours before the maintenance event.

### Configure maintenance scheduling & alerting

-   [Manage scheduled maintenance settings using the Azure Portal
    (Flexible Server)]
-   [View service health notifications in the Azure Portal]
-   [Configure resource health alerts using Azure Portal]

## Azure Database for MySQL upgrade process

Since Azure Database for MySQL is a PaaS offering, administrators are
not responsible for the management of the updates on the operating
system or the MySQL software. However, it is important to be aware the
upgrade process can be random and when being deployed, will stop the
MySQL server workloads. Plan for these downtimes by rerouting the
workloads to a read replica in the event the particular instance goes
into maintenance mode.

> **Note:** This style of failover architecture may require changes to
> the applications data layer to support this type of failover scenario.
> If the read replica is maintained as a read replica and is not
> promoted, the application will only be able to read data and it may
> fail when any operation attempts to write information to the database.

The [planned maintenance notification] feature will inform resource
owners up to 72 hours in advance of installation of an update or
critical security patch. Database administrators may need to notify
application users of planned and unplanned maintenance.

> **Note:** Azure Database for MySQL maintenance notifications are
> incredibly important. The database maintenance can take the database
> and connected applications down for a short period of time.

## 10 / Summary

This section aptly pointed out that platform as a service instances such
as Azure Database for MySQL still have some downtime that must be taken
into consideration. Because versions of MySQL will eventually run out of
support, a plan should be developed to ensure that the possibliity of
upgrades will not take applications offline. Consider using read only
replicas that will maintain the application availability during these
downtimes. To support these types of architectures, the applications may
need to be able to gracefully support the failover to read-only nodes
when users attempt to perform write based activities.

### Checklist

-   Perform backups regularly, ensure the backup frequency meets
    requirements.
-   Setup read replicas for read intensive workloads and regional
    failover.
-   Use resource locks to prevent accidental deletions.
-   Create resource locks on resource groups.
-   Implement a load balancing strategy for applications for quick
    failover.
-   Be aware that service outages will occur and plan appropriatly.
-   Setup maintenance notifications.

# 11 / Best Practices

## Best practices for MySQL Flexible Server apps

Organizations developing cloud apps backed by Azure Database for MySQL
Flexible Server should consider implementing the following best
practices. Note that this list is not comprehensive.

Consult the [Azure Well-Architected Framework] for more information
regarding the core principles of efficient cloud workloads. You can
assess your existing Azure workloads for Well-Architected Framework
compliance with the [Azure Well-Architected Review utility.]

### 1. Colocate resources

Locating Azure services in the same region minimizes network traffic
costs and network latency. Flexible Server not only supports colocation
in the same region, but also colocation in the same Availability Zone
for [regions that support Availability Zones.] MySQL Flexible Server
couples well with zonal services, like Virtual Machines.

### 2. Implement connection pooling

Developers can significantly improve application performance by reducing
the number of times that connections are established and increasing the
duration of those connections through connection pooling. Microsoft
recommends the ProxySQL connection pooling solution, hosted on
application servers or container orchestrators, like Azure Kubernetes
Service (AKS).

-   [ProxySQL on a VM]
-   [ProxySQL on AKS][on the same infrastructure as their apps]

### 3. Size containers adequately

To ensure that containerized applications function optimally, verify
that application containers are allocated sufficient resources. It may
be necessary to adjust application parameters for container
environments, like Java heap size parameters.

Developers can identify container resource issues through monitoring
utilities, like [Container insights,] which supports Azure Kubernetes
Service, Azure Container Instances, on-premises Kubernetes clusters, and
more.

### 4. Implement network isolation & SSL connectivity

MySQL Flexible Server natively supports connectivity through Azure
Virtual Networks, meaning that the database endpoint does not face the
public Internet, and database traffic remains within Azure. Consider the
\[Networking and connectivity options\] document for more information
regarding public and private access.

Microsoft also recommends securing data in motion through SSL for
applications that support SSL connectivity. Legacy applications should
only use lower SSL versions or disable SSL connectivity in secure
network environments.

### 5. Retry on transient faults

Given that cloud environments are more likely to encounter transient
faults, like network connectivity interruptions or service timeouts,
applications must implement logic to deal with them, typically by
retrying requests after a delay.

Applications must first determine if a fault is transient or more
persistent. Typically, API responses indicate the nature of the issue,
sometimes even specifying a retry interval. If the fault is transient,
applications must retry requests without consuming excessive resources.
Common retry strategies including sending requests at regular intervals,
exponential intervals, or random intervals. If a given number of retry
requests fail, applications consider the operation failed.

Azure SDKs typically provide native support for retrying service
requests. Consult the documentation's [list of per-service retry
recommendations.]

For some ORMs that are commonly used with MySQL databases, like PHP's
**PDO MySQL**, it may be necessary to write custom retry code that
retries database connections if particular MySQL error codes are thrown.

### 6. Size database compute resources adequately

Teams must be diligent with sizing their Flexible Server instances to be
cost-effective while maintaining sufficient application performance.
There are [three different tiers of Flexible Server
instances][scale storage to increase IOPS capacity or provision additional IOPS],
each with different intended use cases and memory configurations.

-   **Burstable**:
    -   Up to **2 GiB** memory per vCore
    -   Intended for workloads that do not use the CPU continuously
    -   Cost-effective for smaller web applications and development
        workloads
-   **General Purpose**:
    -   **4 GiB** per vCore
    -   Intended for applications that require more throughput
-   **Memory Optimized**:
    -   **8 GiB** per vCore
    -   Intended for high-throughput transactional and analytical
        workloads, like real-time data processing

Flexible Server instances can be resized after creation. Azure stops
database VM instances and needs up to 120 seconds to scale compute
resources.

Use Azure Monitor Metrics to determine if you need to scale your
Flexible Server instance. Monitor metrics like **Host CPU percent**,
**Active Connections**, **IO percent**, and **Host Memory Percent** to
make your scaling decisions. To test database performance under
realistic application load, consider utilities like [sysbench.]

## 11 / Summary

The preceding best practices are a collection of the most common items
that architects and developers may employ to improve the performance,
security and availability of their Azure Database for MySQL
applications. Be sure to review if you have followed all the recommended
best practices and if you discover they have not been followed, try to
implement them as soon as possible to esnure the integrity of your
applications and satisfaction of your users.

# 12 / MySQL architectures

By progressing through this guide, there have been various ways
presented to build and deploy applications using many different services
in Azure. Although we covered many topics, there are many other creative
and different ways to build and deploy MySQL-based services.

The [Azure Architecture center] provides many different examples of how
to create different architectures. Although some of them utilize other
database persistence technologies, these could easily be substituted
with Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server.

## Sample architectures

The following are a few examples of architectures using different
patterns and focused on various industries from the Azure Architecture
Center.

### Digital marketing using Azure Database for MySQL

-   [Digital marketing using Azure Database for MySQL:] In this
    architecture, corporations serve digital marketing campaigns through
    content management systems, like WordPress or Drupal, running on
    Azure App Service. These CMS offerings access user data in Azure
    Database for MySQL. Azure Cache for Redis caches data and sessions,
    while Azure Application Insights monitors the CMS app for issues and
    performance.

### Finance management apps using Azure Database for MySQL

-   [Finance management apps using Azure Database for MySQL:] This
    architecture demonstrates a three-tier app, coupled with advanced
    analytics served by Power BI. Tier-3 clients, like mobile
    applications, access tier-2 APIs, which reference tier-1 Azure
    Database for MySQL. To offer additional value, [Power BI] accesses
    Azure Database for MySQL (possibly read replicas) through its MySQL
    connector.

### Intelligent apps using Azure Database for MySQL

-   [Intelligent apps using Azure Database for MySQL:] This solution
    demonstrates an innovative app that utilizes serverless computing
    (Azure Function Apps), machine learning (Azure Machine Learning
    Studio & Cognitive Services APIs), Azure Database for MySQL, and
    Power BI.

### Gaming using Azure Database for MySQL

-   [Gaming using Azure Database for MySQL:] This architecture
    demonstrates how to develop apps that must process API requests at
    scale, such as gaming backends. It utilizes Azure Traffic Manager,
    to geographically distribute traffic; Azure API Management, to
    provide rate limiting, among other features; Azure App Service, to
    host gaming APIs; and Azure Database for MySQL. Firms can perform
    analysis on gaming data in Azure Database for MySQL using Azure
    HDInsight and visualize the data in Power BI.

### Retail and e-commerce using Azure MySQL

-   [Retail and e-commerce using Azure MySQL:] This application
    architecture focuses on processing transactions quickly and creating
    tailored customer experiences. It consists of Azure App Service,
    Azure Database for MySQL (for storing product and session
    information), and Azure Search (for full-text search capability).

### Scalable web and mobile applications using Azure Database for MySQL

-   [Scalable web and mobile applications using Azure Database for
    MySQL:] This generic architecture utilizes the scaling capabilities
    (vertical and horizontal) of Azure App Service and MySQL Flexible
    Server.

## 12 / Summary

From basic two-tier and three-tier architectures to more advanced
container based and event-driven architectures, there are many ways a
developer can build a MySQL based application.

At the very core, an application will consumer CPU, memory, disk and
network. Finding the right target hosting platform while balancing costs
is a vital skill to have and by learning from the examples provided
throughout this guide, developers with have a nice base of knowledge to
start from.

### Checklist

-   Reference architectures can provide ideas on how to use a product.
-   Utilize the knowledge others have to build your own applications.
-   Implement common proven patterns in your architectures.

# 13 / Customer stories

Azure Database for MySQL is used by customers all over the world, and
many have shared their stories on the [Microsoft Customer Stories
portal].

## Case studies

The following are a set of case studies from the Microsoft Customer
Stories page focused on the usage of Azure Database for MySQL.

### Minecraft

![][63]

Minecraft migrated from AWS Aurora to Azure Database for MySQL for its
Realms service to improve performance and reduce costs. Minecraft moved
over 1 TB of data, distributed across 13 databases, serving over 6k
requests per second, during the migration. Minecraft utilized the Azure
Database Migration Service six-month free offer to save costs.

Minecraft also migrated its frontend servers to Azure to take advantage
of Azure's global footprint. This migration also improved developer
productivity through smaller code footprints and simpler deployments.

![This image demonstrates the Minecraft Realms service running in Azure,
accessing Azure Database for MySQL.]

### Automobile Retail

The retailer was using Red Hat Enterprise Linux running a MySQL database
with a Java Spring Boot application on the backend and a Vue.js on the
frontend. The environment did not have the capability to scale up and
down as needed to cope with this fluctuation in the market, and 30% of
its resources were underutilized. As a result, the retailer was
overpaying and unnecessarily bleeding valuable capital.

The MySQL database was modernized with Azure Database for MySQL with a
read replica to support the reporting needs of the business.

### Linked Brain

![][64]

In November 2019, a Microsoft gaming industry representative visited
[Linked Brain] to explain Microsoft Azure services and FastTrack for
Azure. Features fitted perfectly with Linked Brain's goal of building
game systems with PaaS, and the company decided to officially adopt
Microsoft Azure.

We learned Flexible Server could scale up and down without stoppages,
offer backup capabilities, and deliver I/O capacity proportionate to
storage size, making it easy to boost performance as data accumulates.
Azure also offers regional disaster recovery as a standard benefit---an
option which requires another instance fee on Amazon RDS."

### T-Systems

![][65]

In the Internet of Things (IoT) age, organizations must share
proprietary data quickly while maintaining control, security, and
compliance. [T-Systems], a Deutsche Telekom division, worked with expert
partner Ultra Tendency to meet that need, using Microsoft Azure and
Azure Database for PostgreSQL to help create the Telekom Data
Intelligence Hub, a data marketplace for data sharing that includes
built-in analytics tools.

"We were looking for managed database solutions," says Robert Neumann,
Chief Executive Officer at Ultra Tendency. "With Azure database
services, we wouldn't have to manage uptime, backup, and recovery
scenarios, and we could make the platform faster and more reliable."

The execution layer of Data Intelligence Hub runs entirely on Azure
database services, using the Azure Database for PostgreSQL and Azure
Database for MySQL services to support data availability without having
to maintain a database operations infrastructure.

### Children's Mercy Hospital

![][66]

[Children's Mercy Kansas City], an award-winning hospital and research
institute, manages one of the leading genome sequencing centers in the
United States. To better support researchers, Children's Mercy is
working with Microsoft and Pacific Biosciences to create a scalable,
sharable, cloud-based data hub for vital research into pediatric
diseases, built on Microsoft Genomics and Azure. It's already garnering
praise from the genomics research community and has potential to
accelerate vital clinical care for children.

The hospital and research institute had an existing relationship with
Microsoft, so when researchers saw sequencing data begin to push toward
the CMRI datacenter's storage limits, the organization chose to support
its genomic data platform with Microsoft Genomics, Azure Database for
MySQL, and Azure infrastructure as a service (IaaS) resources.

### GeekWire

![][67]

Based in Seattle, Washington, [GeekWire] is a rapidly growing technology
news site with a global readership. In addition to covering the latest
innovation, GeekWire serves the Pacific Northwest tech community with
events, a job board, startup resources, a weekly radio show, and more.
As its popularity and site traffic increased, so did performance
concerns. To gain better scalability and performance, GeekWire decided
to migrate its WordPress site to the Microsoft Azure platform. By taking
advantage of fully managed services like Azure Database for MySQL, the
company can scale on-demand while cutting costs 45 percent.

## Common MySQL Apps

This section documents common MySQL-based products and their third-party
implementations that organizations operate on Azure.

### 3rd party Azure solutions / Azure Marketplace

The [Azure Marketplace] provides thousands of certified apps on Azure
tailored to meet customer needs. Many of these apps utilize Azure
Database for MySQL.

#### CMS like WordPress

The WordPress CMS, based on PHP and MySQL, is the most popular CMS,
powering millions of web-scale sites and offering a variety of
extensions. There are multiple WordPress offerings in the Azure
Marketplace, such as [one from WordPress], which utilizes App Service
and VMs.

#### LMS like Moodle

The Moodle LMS supports thousands of educational institutions and
organizations, numbering 213 million users as of June 2020. There are a
plethora of Azure Marketplace Moodle offerings; [this offering] uses
Azure Database for MySQL for its persistence layer.

#### e-commerce like Magento

Magento is a powerful e-commerce and marketing platform suitable for
small and large businesses. There are multiple implementations available
on the Azure Marketplace, including [this offering][68] that provides a
Helm chart for a Kubernetes deployment.

## 13 / Summary

Similar to reference architecture, case studies provide a view into how
other organizations are building applications using MySQL that could be
appropriate and similar to how a developer may be thinking of building
their own application. Although they may not go into as much depth as
reference architectures, they certainly provide a means of generating
ideas.

### Checklist

-   Understand the most common uses of a product
-   Do look for references of other customers
-   Use case studies as basis for justification of your designs
-   Attend conferences to learn how others are using the product(s)

# 14 / Zero to Hero

As we approach the end to this developer guide, it should now be
possible to assess where in the application and database evolution the
target environment may be and using that waypoint, determine what steps
are needed to take the application architecture to the next level in the
evolutionary progression.

## Determining the evolutionary waypoint

In module 4, we explored a series of progressions from classic
development and deployment to current modern development and deployment
methods. As a review, bre sure to reference this information to find
your waypoint.

## Summary of tasks

-   Have the right tools available
-   Determine how best to deploy the application
-   Utilize code repositories with CI/CD enabled
-   Ensure the target environment is configured to support the
    workload(s)
-   Secure the application configurations
-   Secure the database configurations
-   Secure the virtual networks
-   Monitor the applications and database workloads for performance
-   Perform regular testing
-   Ensure up policies and procedures are setup and configured for
    auditing application and database workloads
-   Setup backup and restore based on RTO and RPO objectives
-   Be familiar with potential issues and how to troubleshoot and
    remediate them

## 14 / Final Summary

This guide was designed to provide insightful and rich sets of
information on how to get started with developing applications with
Azure Database for MySQL. After reading through all the sections, a
developer will have nurtured a foundation for how to get set up with the
right tools and how to make decisions on target deployment models. This
guide provided several sample architectures, deployment models and
real-world customer references of using Azure Database for MySQL that
can be referenced in platform selection decisions.

As a final note, although there are several options for hosting MySQL in
Azure, the recommended and preferred method is to utilize Azure Database
for MySQL Flexible Server for its rich set of features and flexibility.

## Resources

### Call to Action

Thanks for downloading and reading this Azure Database for MySQL
developer guide. We encourage to to continue your learning by reviewing
the following links to documentation pages and creating a free azure
account to practice with.

-   [Review homepage]
-   [Documentation][69]
-   [Get started for free with an Azure free account!]
-   [Tutorial]
-   [Azure Pricing Calculator, TCO Calculator]
-   [Migrate your workloads to Azure DB for MySQL]

### Stay tuned for latest updates and announcements

-   [What's new in Flexible Server?]
-   [Tech Community Blog]

### Follow Azure Database for MySQL on social platforms

-   [Twitter]
-   [LinkedIn]
-   Email the Azure Database for MySQL at
    AskAzureDBforMySQL\@service.microsoft.com

### Find a partner to assist in migrating

This guide introduced and covered several advanced development and
deployment concepts that may be new to you or your organization. If at
anypoint you need help there are many experts in the community with a
proven migration and modernization track record.

Feel free to [search for a Microsoft Partner] or [Microsoft MVP] to help
with finding the most appropriate migration strategy.

Browse the technical forums and social groups for more detailed
real-world information:

-   [Microsoft Community Forum]
-   [StackOverflow for Azure MySQL]
-   [Azure Facebook Group]
-   [LinkedIn Azure Group]
-   [LinkedIn Azure Developers Group]

  [01 / Azure MySQL Developer Guide]: #azure-mysql-developer-guide
  [02 / What is MySQL?]: #what-is-mysql
  [Comparison with other RDBMS offerings]: #comparison-with-other-rdbms-offerings
  [MySQL hosting options]: #mysql-hosting-options
  [Hosting MySQL on Azure - benefits and options]: #hosting-mysql-on-azure---benefits-and-options
  [Introduction to Azure resource management]: #introduction-to-azure-resource-management
  [Introduction to Azure Database for MySQL]: #introduction-to-azure-database-for-mysql
  [Migrate to Flexible Server]: #migrate-to-flexible-server
  [02 / Summary]: #summary
  [03 / Getting Started - Setup and Tools]: #getting-started---setup-and-tools
  [Azure free account]: #azure-free-account
  [Azure subscriptions and limits]: #azure-subscriptions-and-limits
  [Azure authentication]: #azure-authentication
  [Development editor tools]: #development-editor-tools
  [Resources]: #resources
  [Create a Flexible Server database]: #create-a-flexible-server-database
  [Connect and query Azure Database for MySQL using MySQL Workbench]: #connect-and-query-azure-database-for-mysql-using-mysql-workbench
  [Language support]: #language-support
  [Connect and query Azure Database for MySQL using the Azure CLI]: #connect-and-query-azure-database-for-mysql-using-the-azure-cli
  [Connect and query Azure Database for MySQL using PHP]: #connect-and-query-azure-database-for-mysql-using-php
  [Connect and query Azure Database for MySQL using Python]: #connect-and-query-azure-database-for-mysql-using-python
  [03 / Summary]: #summary-1
  [04 / End to End application development]: #end-to-end-application-development
  [Common Azure development services overview]: #common-azure-development-services-overview
  [Introduction to the Sample Application]: #introduction-to-the-sample-application
  [Deployment evolution options]: #deployment-evolution-options
  [Classic deployment]: #classic-deployment
  [Azure VM deployment]: #azure-vm-deployment
  [Simple App Service deployment with Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server]:
    #simple-app-service-deployment-with-azure-database-for-mysql-flexible-server
  [App Service with In-App MySQL]: #app-service-with-in-app-mysql
  [Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD)]: #continuous-integration-ci-and-continuous-delivery-cd
  [Containerizing layers with Docker]: #containerizing-layers-with-docker
  [Azure Container Instances (ACI)]: #azure-container-instances-aci
  [App Service Containers]: #app-service-containers
  [Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)]: #azure-kubernetes-service-aks
  [AKS with MySQL Flexible Server]: #aks-with-mysql-flexible-server
  [Start the hands-on-tutorial developer journey]: #start-the-hands-on-tutorial-developer-journey
  [Application continuous integration and deployment]: #application-continuous-integration-and-deployment
  [04 / Summary]: #summary-2
  [05 / Monitoring]: #monitoring
  [Overview]: #overview
  [Define your monitoring strategy]: #define-your-monitoring-strategy
  [Azure Monitor options]: #azure-monitor-options
  [Application monitoring]: #application-monitoring
  [Monitoring database operations]: #monitoring-database-operations
  [Alerting guidelines]: #alerting-guidelines
  [05 / Summary]: #summary-3
  [Recommended content]: #recommended-content
  [06 / Networking and Security]: #networking-and-security
  [Public vs. Private Access]: #public-vs.-private-access
  [Virtual Network Hierarchy]: #virtual-network-hierarchy
  [Networking best practices for Flexible Server]: #networking-best-practices-for-flexible-server
  [Security]: #security
  [06 / Summary]: #summary-4
  [Security checklist]: #security-checklist
  [07 / Testing]: #testing
  [Approaches]: #approaches
  [Testing data capture tools]: #testing-data-capture-tools
  [07 / Summary]: #summary-5
  [08 / Performance + Optimization]: #performance-optimization
  [General performance tips]: #general-performance-tips
  [Monitoring hardware and query performance]: #monitoring-hardware-and-query-performance
  [Upgrading the tier]: #upgrading-the-tier
  [Scaling the server]: #scaling-the-server
  [Azure Database for MySQL Memory Recommendations]: #azure-database-for-mysql-memory-recommendations
  [Moving regions]: #moving-regions
  [Server parameters]: #server-parameters
  [Upgrade Azure Database for MySQL versions]: #upgrade-azure-database-for-mysql-versions
  [Customizing the container runtime]: #customizing-the-container-runtime
  [Running MySQL Benchmarks]: #running-mysql-benchmarks
  [Instrumenting vital server resources]: #instrumenting-vital-server-resources
  [1]: #server-parameters-1
  [Caching]: #caching
  [Azure Content Delivery Network]: #azure-content-delivery-network
  [08 / Summary]: #summary-6
  [09 / Troubleshooting]: #troubleshooting
  [Common MySQL issues]: #common-mysql-issues
  [Troubleshoot app issues in Azure App Service]: #troubleshoot-app-issues-in-azure-app-service
  [App debugging]: #app-debugging
  [09 / Summary]: #summary-7
  [10 / Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery]: #business-continuity-and-disaster-recovery
  [High availability]: #high-availability
  [Replication]: #replication
  [Read replicas]: #read-replicas
  [Deleted servers]: #deleted-servers
  [Regional failure]: #regional-failure
  [Load Balancers]: #load-balancers
  [Use cases]: #use-cases
  [Flexible Server resources]: #flexible-server-resources
  [Backup and restore]: #backup-and-restore
  [Service maintenance]: #service-maintenance
  [Azure Database for MySQL upgrade process]: #azure-database-for-mysql-upgrade-process
  [10 / Summary]: #summary-8
  [11 / Best Practices]: #best-practices
  [Best practices for MySQL Flexible Server apps]: #best-practices-for-mysql-flexible-server-apps
  [11 / Summary]: #summary-9
  [12 / MySQL architectures]: #mysql-architectures
  [Sample architectures]: #sample-architectures
  [12 / Summary]: #summary-10
  [13 / Customer stories]: #customer-stories
  [Case studies]: #case-studies
  [Common MySQL Apps]: #common-mysql-apps
  [13 / Summary]: #summary-11
  [14 / Zero to Hero]: #zero-to-hero
  [Determining the evolutionary waypoint]: #determining-the-evolutionary-waypoint
  [Summary of tasks]: #summary-of-tasks
  [14 / Final Summary]: #final-summary
  [2]: #resources-10
  [MySQL]: https://www.mysql.com/
  [Microsoft Azure]: https://portal.azure.com/
  [The diagram shows the progression of development evolution in the guide.]:
    media/mysql-journey.png "MySQL Journey"
  [Azure Database for MySQL]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/
  [Azure Marketplace]: https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/
  [Structured Query Language (SQL)]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL
  [MySQL Documentation]: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/features.html
  [WordPress]: https://wordpress.org/
  [Drupal]: https://www.drupal.org/
  [LAMP]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LAMP_(software_bundle)
  [MariaDB]: https://mariadb.org/
  [Oracle purchased Sun Microsystems]: https://www.oracle.com/webfolder/college-recruiting/projects/mysql.html#.YexR-P7ML8o
  [Azure Database for MariaDB.]: https://azure.microsoft.com/services/mariadb/
  [PostgreSQL]: https://www.postgresql.org/
  [Azure Database for PostgreSQL]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/postgresql/overview
  [in Microsoft Learn.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/modules/deploy-mariadb-mysql-postgresql-azure/2-describe-open-source-offerings
  [Docker image]: https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql
  [Azure Partner Builder's Program]: https://partner.microsoft.com/marketing/azure-isv-technology-partners
  [Visual Studio]: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/
  [Azure DevOps]: https://dev.azure.com/
  [GitHub]: https://github.com/
  [Power Apps]: https://powerapps.microsoft.com/
  [2020 McKinsey & Company report.]: https://azure.microsoft.com/mediahandler/files/resourcefiles/developer-velocity-how-software-excellence-fuels-business-performance/Developer-Velocity-How-software-excellence-fuels-business-performance-v4.pdf
  [This image demonstrates common development tools on the Microsoft cloud platform to expedite application development.]:
    media/ISV-Tech-Builders-tools-white.png "Microsoft cloud tooling"
  [free subscription]: https://azure.microsoft.com/free/search/
  [This diagram shows the cloud adoption strategy.]: media/cloud-adoption-strategies.png
    "Cloud adoption strategy"
  [3]: https://azure.microsoft.com/services/mysql/#features
  [Microsoft Learn.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/modules/cmu-cloud-computing-overview/4-building-blocks
  [Azure Fundamentals Microsoft Learn Module]: https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/modules/intro-to-azure-fundamentals/
  [IaaS and PaaS Azure service classification and categories]: ./media/azure-services.png
    "Categories of Azure services"
  [Virtual Machines (IaaS)]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machines/windows/overview
  [Azure App Service (PaaS)]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview
  [Azure Container Instances (PaaS)]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/container-instances/container-instances-overview
  [Azure Kubernetes Service (PaaS)]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/intro-kubernetes
  [Azure Fundamentals Microsoft Learn]: https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/modules/intro-to-azure-fundamentals/tour-of-azure-services
  [Management groups]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/governance/management-groups/overview
  [Resource groups]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/manage-resource-groups-portal
  [This image shows Azure resource scopes.]: ./media/scope-levels.png
    "fig:Azure resource scopes"
  [Azure landing zone]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/ready/landing-zone/
  [This image demonstrates the Azure landing zone accelerator in the Azure portal, and how organizations can optimize Azure for their needs and innovate.]:
    ./media/landing-zone-accelerator.png
    "Azure landing zone accelerator screenshot"
  [Azure Resource Manager]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/overview
  [Azure CLI]: https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/what-is-azure-cli
  [Azure PowerShell]: https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/what-is-azure-powershell?view=azps-7.1.0
  [Azure REST API]: https://docs.microsoft.com/rest/api/azure/
  [Identity and access management (IAM)]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/role-based-access-control/overview
  [This image demonstrates how the Azure Resource Manager provides a robust, secure interface to Azure resources.]:
    media/consistent-management-layer.png
    "Azure Resource Manager explained"
  [Azure service management tool maturity progression.]: media/azure-management-tool-maturity.png
    "Azure service management tool"
  [Azure mobile app]: https://azure.microsoft.com/get-started/azure-portal/mobile-app/
  [The picture shows the initial Azure service list.]: media/azure-portal-services.png
    "Azure portal Services"
  [4]: https://docs.microsoft.com/marketplace/azure-marketplace-overview
  [The picture shows an example of Azure Marketplace search results.]: media/azure-marketplace-search-results.png
    "Azure Marketplace Results"
  [Shows an example of the Azure CLI.]: media/azure-cli-example.png
    "Azure CLI Example"
  [Azure command-line tool guide]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/azure-cli/choose-the-right-azure-command-line-tool
  [Azure Cloud Shell]: shell.azure.com
  [download the CLI tools from Microsoft.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli
  [installation document.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/install-az-ps?view=azps-6.6.0
  [Azure PowerShell cmdlets]: https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/?view=azps-7.3.0
  [Tutorial: Design an Azure Database for MySQL using PowerShell]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/tutorial-design-database-using-powershell
  [Infrastructure as Code (IaC)]: https://docs.microsoft.com/devops/deliver/what-is-infrastructure-as-code
  [ARM templates]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/
  [The picture shows an example of an ARM template JSON export.]: media/azure-template-json-example.png
    "Azure Template JSON"
  [Bicep]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/overview
  [Bicep playground]: https://aka.ms/bicepdemo
  [Explore the Bicep template benefits]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/overview?tabs=bicep
  [This image demonstrates part of a sample Bicep template for provisioning Azure Database for MySQL.]:
    ./media/sample-bicep-template.png
    "Azure Database for MySQL sample Bicep template"
  [Hashicorp Terraform]: https://www.terraform.io/
  [Terraform]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/terraform/overview
  [This image demonstrates part of a sample Terraform template for provisioning Azure Database for MySQL.]:
    ./media/sample-terraform-template.png
    "Azure Database for MySQL sample Terraform template"
  [resource tags]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/tag-resources?tabs=json
  [resource locks]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/lock-resources?tabs=json
  [multiple support plans for businesses]: https://azure.microsoft.com/support/plans/
  [StackOverflow Azure Tag]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/azure
  [Azure on Twitter]: https://twitter.com/azure
  [FastTrack for Azure]: https://azure.microsoft.com/programs/azure-fasttrack/
  [Azure Certifications & Exams]: https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/certifications/browse/?products=azure
  [Microsoft Learn]: https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/
  [Azure Fundamentals (AZ-900) Learning Path]: https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/paths/az-900-describe-cloud-concepts/
  [Migrating to Azure Database for MySQL]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/migrate/mysql-on-premises-azure-db/01-mysql-migration-guide-intro
  [MySQL Workbench]: https://www.mysql.com/products/workbench/
  [This image demonstrates the control and data plane for Azure Database for MySQL.]:
    ./media/mysql-conceptual-diagram.png
    "Control plane for Azure Database for MySQL"
  [Choose the right MySQL Server option in Azure]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/select-right-deployment-type
  [this video by Data Exposed]: https://docs.microsoft.com/shows/data-exposed/top-3-reasons-to-consider-azure-database-for-mysql-flexible-server/
  [Flexible Server instances can also be paused]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-restart-stop-start-server-cli
  [availability zone]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/availability-zones/az-overview
  [This image demonstrates how MySQL Flexible Server works, with compute, storage, and backup storage.]:
    ./media/flexible-server.png "Operation of MySQL Flexible Server"
  [User-scheduled service maintenance:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-maintenance
  [5]: media/custom_maintenance_schedule.png
  [Network security:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-networking
  [Automatic backups:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/overview
  [6]: media/mysql_backup_configuration.png
  [Read replicas:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-read-replicas
  [Input-output operations per second (IOPS):]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-compute-storage#iops
  [7]: media/mysql_iops_configuration.png
  [Azure Pricing Calculator]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/
  [Azure TCO Calculator]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/tco/calculator/
  [detailed list of the limitations of Flexible Server]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-limitations
  [pause the Single Server offering]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/how-to-stop-start-server
  [SLA of 99.99%]: https://azure.microsoft.com/updates/azure-database-for-mysql-general-availability/
  [Microsoft Learn Module.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/modules/choose-azure-services-sla-lifecycle/
  [Azure documentation]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/howto-migrate-single-flexible-minimum-downtime
  [Azure documentation.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-data-in-replication
  [\$200 free credit for developers to trial Azure]: azure.microsoft.com/free
  [Innovate faster with fully managed MySQL and an Azure free account.]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-deploy-on-azure-free-account/
  [Azure's comprehensive list of service and subscription limits]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits
  [Microsoft docs]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/concepts-azure-ad-authentication
  [Microsoft download page.]: https://code.visualstudio.com/download
  [A simple screenshot of Visual Studio Code.]: media/VSCode_screenshot.png
    "Visual Studio Code"
  [8]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=formulahendry.vscode-mysql
  [Azure App Service plan overview]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview-hosting-plans
  [Plan and manage costs for Azure App Service]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview-manage-costs
  [Quickstart document]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/quickstart-create-server-portal
  [Azure's quickstart guide]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/quickstart-create-server-cli
  [`flexible-server create`]: https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/mysql/flexible-server?view=azure-cli-latest#az_mysql_flexible_server_create
  [`flexible-server db create`]: https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/mysql/flexible-server/db?view=azure-cli-latest#az_mysql_flexible_server_db_create
  [This image demonstrates the MySQL Flexible Server provisioned through Bash CLI commands.]:
    ./media/mysql-flex-params.png "CLI provisioning"
  [9]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/quickstart-create-arm-template#review-the-template
  [MySQL Downloads.]: https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/workbench/
  [Use MySQL Workbench with Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/connect-workbench
  [SSL public certificate]: https://dl.cacerts.digicert.com/DigiCertGlobalRootCA.crt.pem
  [Add the SSL CA file on the SSL tab of the Setup New Connection dialog box.]:
    ./media/new-ssl-connection-with-ca-file.png "Add SSL CA file"
  [PHP]: #php
  [Java]: #java
  [Python]: #python
  [Other notable languages for MySQL apps]: #other-notable-languages-for-mysql-apps
  [Tip]: media/tip.png "Tip"
  [Create a PHP web app in Azure App Service]: https://aka.ms/php-qs
  [Backend libraries for mysqli and PDO_MySQL]: https://www.php.net/manual/en/mysqlinfo.library.choosing.php
  [Introduction to PDO]: https://www.php.net/manual/en/intro.pdo.php
  [PDO_MYSQL Reference]: https://www.php.net/manual/en/ref.pdo-mysql.php
  [Configure a PHP app for Azure App Service]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/configure-language-php?pivots=platform-linux
  [php.ini directives]: https://www.php.net/manual/en/ini.list.php
  [Quickstart: Use Java and JDBC with Azure Database for MySQL]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/connect-java
  [MySQL drivers and management tools compatible with Azure Database for MySQL]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/concepts-compatibility
  [MySQL Connector/J Introduction]: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/8.0/en/connector-j-overview.html
  [Flexible Server]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/connect-java
  [Introduction to Spring Data JPA]: https://www.baeldung.com/the-persistence-layer-with-spring-data-jpa
  [Hibernate ORM]: https://hibernate.org/orm/
  [Installing the Azure Toolkit for Eclipse]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/java/toolkit-for-eclipse/installation
  [Create a Hello World web app for Azure App Service using Eclipse]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/java/toolkit-for-eclipse/create-hello-world-web-app
  [Azure for Java developer documentation]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/java/?view=azure-java-stable
  [Maven Introduction]: https://maven.apache.org/guides/getting-started/index.html
  [Develop Java web app on Azure using Maven (App Service)]: https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/modules/publish-web-app-with-maven-plugin-for-azure-app-service/
  [Deploy Spring microservices to Azure (Spring Cloud)]: https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/modules/azure-spring-cloud-workshop/
  [Develop Java serverless Functions on Azure using Maven]: https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/modules/develop-azure-functions-app-with-maven-plugin/
  [Introduction to MySQL Connector/Python]: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-python/en/connector-python-introduction.html
  [PyMySQL Samples]: https://pymysql.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/examples.html
  [MySQLdb (mysqlclient) User's Guide]: https://mysqlclient.readthedocs.io/user_guide.html#mysqldb
  [Django ORM Support for MySQL]: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/ref/databases/#mysql-notes
  [MySQL Connector/NET]: https://github.com/mysql/mysql-connector-net
  [from the MySQL documentation]: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-net/en/connector-net-entityframework-core.html
  [Async MySQL Connector for .NET]: https://github.com/mysql-net/MySqlConnector
  [*Mysql2*]: https://github.com/brianmario/mysql2
  [Quickstart: Connect and query with Azure CLI with Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/connect-azure-cli#create-a-database
  [This image demonstrates running queries against the Flexible Server instance using the Azure CLI.]:
    ./media/analyst-query.png
    "Running an admin query from the Azure CLI"
  [this document.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/howto-create-users?tabs=flexible-server
  [downloads page.]: https://windows.php.net/download/
  [Quickstart guide]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/connect-php
  [Downloads page]: https://www.python.org/downloads/
  [Microsoft's sample]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/connect-python
  [10]: media/develop-app-faster-youtube.png
  [Develop applications faster with Azure Database for MySQL -- Flexible Server \| Data Exposed]:
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RZXbwscC9FU&t=266s
  [11]: media/end-to-end-deployment-chapter-steps.png
  [Azure Functions]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-overview
  [Azure Logic Apps]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/logic-apps/logic-apps-overview
  [custom handlers.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-custom-handlers
  [documentation]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/durable/durable-functions-overview?tabs=csharp
  [Azure Functions hosting options]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-scale
  [Compare Azure Functions and Azure Logic Apps]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-compare-logic-apps-ms-flow-webjobs#compare-azure-functions-and-azure-logic-apps
  [Build microservices on Azure]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/microservices/
  [Using domain analysis to model microservices]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/microservices/model/domain-analysis
  [This image demonstrates the control plane, management plane, and developer portal elements of API Management.]:
    ./media/api-management-components.png "API Management components"
  [About API Management]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/api-management/api-management-key-concepts
  [Self-hosted gateway overview]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/api-management/self-hosted-gateway-overview
  [Azure Functions:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-bindings-timer
  [Logic Apps:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/logic-apps/concepts-schedule-automated-recurring-tasks-workflows
  [12]: media/sample-app-level-1-architecture.png
  [13]: media/sample-app-site-map.png
  [Sample application tutorial]: ./../artifacts/00-Sample-App/README.md
  [Classic Deployment to PHP-enabled IIS server]: ./../artifacts/01-ClassicDeploy/README.md
  [This image demonstrates the classic deployment.]: ./media/classic-deployment-diagram.png
    "Classic deployment"
  [Cloud Deployment to Azure VM]: ./../artifacts/02-01-CloudDeploy-Vm/README.md
  [This image demonstrates the Azure VM deployment.]: ./media/azure-vm-deployment.png
    "Azure VM deployment"
  [Cloud Deployment to Azure App Service]: ./../artifacts/02-02-CloudDeploy-AppSvc/README.md
  [This image demonstrates an App Service deployment that references Flexible Server.]:
    ./media/app-svc-flex-server.png
    "App Service and Flexible Server deployment"
  [App Service Plan]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/app-service/windows/
  [Announcing Azure App Service MySQL in-app]: https://azure.microsoft.com/blog/mysql-in-app-preview-app-service/
  [Cloud Deployment to Azure App Service with MySQL InApp]: ./../artifacts/02-03-CloudDeploy-InApp/README.md
  [This image demonstrates an App Service deployment with in-app MySQL.]:
    ./media/in-app-deployment.png "App Service with in-app MySQL"
  [Deployment via CI/CD]: ./../artifacts/02-04-CloudDeploy-CICD/README.md
  [This image demonstrates an App Service deployment with CI/CD.]: ./media/cicd-deployment.png
    "App Service CI/CD deployment"
  [Migrate to Docker Containers]: ./../artifacts/03-00-Docker/README.md
  [This image demonstrates a containerized deployment.]: ./media/containerized-deployment.png
    "Containerized deployment"
  [Migrate to Azure Container Instances (ACI)]: ./../artifacts/03-01-CloudDeploy-ACI/README.md
  [This image demonstrates a deployment to Azure Container Instances.]: ./media/aci-deployment.png
    "Azure Container Instances deployment"
  [Migrate to Azure App Service Containers]: ./../artifacts/03-02-CloudDeploy-AppService-Container/README.md
  [This image demonstrates a deployment to App Service for Containers.]:
    ./media/app-service-containers-deployment.png
    "App Service for Containers deployment"
  [on the same infrastructure as their apps]: https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-database-for-mysql-blog/deploy-proxysql-as-a-service-on-kubernetes-using-azure-database/ba-p/1105959
  [Azure Service Operator]: https://azure.github.io/azure-service-operator/
  [Migrate to Azure Kubernetes Services (AKS)]: ./../artifacts/04-AKS/README.md
  [This image demonstrates a deployment to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).]:
    ./media/aks-deployment.png "AKS deployment"
  [Utilize AKS and Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server]: ./../artifacts/05-CloudDeploy-MySQLFlex/README.md
  [This image demonstrates an AKS deployment that references Flexible Server.]:
    ./media/aks-flexible-server-deployment.png
    "AKS with Flexible Server deployment"
  [14]: media/search-for-custom-template.png
  [15]: media/build-your-own-custom-template.png
  [16]: media/load-local-arm-template.png
  [17]: media/save-the-template.png
  [Tutorial: Deploy a local ARM template]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/deployment-tutorial-local-template?tabs=azure-cli
  [Basic Template]: ./../artifacts/template.json
  [Secure Template]: ./../artifacts/template-secure.json
  [18]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-overview
  [Dotnet]: ./../artifacts/06-01-FunctionApp-DotNet/README.md
  [19]: ./../artifacts/06-02-FunctionApp-Python/README.md
  [AKS]: ./../artifacts/06-03-FunctionApp-AKS/README.md
  [Secured with MSI]: ./../artifacts/06-04-FunctionApp-MSI/README.md
  [Logic Apps]: ./../artifacts/06-05-LogicApp/README.md
  [Azure Data Factory]: ./../artifacts/07-01-AzureDataFactory/README.md
  [Azure Synapse Analytics]: ./../artifacts/07-02-AzureSynapseAnalytics/README.md
  [Azure Batch]: ./../artifacts/07-03-AzureBatch/README.md
  [microservice]: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/solutions/microservice-applications/#solution-architectures
  [Design patterns for microservices]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/microservices/design/patterns
  [YAML.]: yaml.org
  [Azure Boards:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/devops/boards/get-started/what-is-azure-boards?view=azure-devops
  [processes.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/devops/boards/work-items/guidance/choose-process?view=azure-devops&tabs=basic-process
  [Azure Pipelines:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/devops/pipelines/get-started/what-is-azure-pipelines?view=azure-devops
  [Azure Test Plans:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/devops/test/overview?view=azure-devops
  [Azure Repos:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/devops/repos/get-started/what-is-repos?view=azure-devops
  [Azure Artifacts:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/devops/artifacts/start-using-azure-artifacts?view=azure-devops
  [Azure Pipelines]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/add-template-to-azure-pipelines
  [GitHub Actions]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/deploy-github-actions
  [Here]: https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-database-for-mysql-blog/using-azure-service-operator-to-provision-azure-db-for-mysql/ba-p/3056231
  [Azure Monitor]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/overview
  [Log Analytics]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/platform/design-logs-deployment
  [Azure Sentinel]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/sentinel/overview
  [Azure runbooks]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/automation/automation-quickstart-create-runbook
  [20]: media/azure-monitor-overview-topics.png
  [21]: media/how-azure-monitor-works.png
  [What is monitored by Azure Monitor?]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/monitor-reference
  [plan their monitoring strategy]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/best-practices-plan
  [Azure Monitor Pricing]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/monitor/
  [22]: media/azure-metric-icon.png
  [Azure Monitor Metrics overview]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/data-platform-metrics
  [23]: media/activity-logs.png
  [platform log]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/platform-logs-overview
  [Azure Activity log]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log
  [24]: media/log-analytics-icon.png
  [Overview of Log Analytics in Azure Monitor]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/logs/log-analytics-overview
  [Log Analytics tutorial]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/logs/log-analytics-tutorial
  [25]: media/workbooks-icon.png
  [Azure Monitor Workbooks]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/visualize/workbooks-overview
  [26]: media/resource-health.png
  [Resource Health overview]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-health/resource-health-overview
  [Application Insights]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview
  [27]: media/application-insights-overview.png
  [Connection Strings]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/app/sdk-connection-string?tabs=net
  [Azure Metrics Explorer]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-getting-started
  [28]: media/azure-metrics-workflow.png
  [29]: media/azure-metric-time-range.png
  [30]: media/mysql-guide-metric-counters.png
  [31]: media/mysql-guide-request-count-metric.png
  [32]: media/azure-metric-new-alert-rule.png
  [Manage usage and costs for Application Insights]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/app/pricing
  [33]: media/azure-portal-mysql-overview.png
  [34]: media/mysql-azure-portal-metrics.png
  [Monitor Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Servers with built-in metrics]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-monitoring
  [35]: media/mysql-diagnostic-settings.png
  [Set up diagnostics]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/tutorial-configure-audit#set-up-diagnostics
  [36]: media/azure-diagnostic-query.png
  [37]: media/azure-diagnostic-query-result.png
  [38]: media/mysql-log-analytics-audit-log-query.png
  [View query insights by using Log Analytics]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/tutorial-query-performance-insights#view-query-insights-by-using-log-analytics
  [39]: media/workbook-example.png
  [40]: media/query-performance-insight.png
  [Query Performance Insight tool]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/tutorial-query-performance-insights
  [Warning]: media/warning.png "Warning"
  [Monitor Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server by using Azure Monitor workbooks]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-workbooks
  [41]: media/resource-health-example.png
  [42]: media/activity-logs-example.png
  [43]: media/activity-log-example-detail.png
  [44]: media/create-alert.png
  [45]: media/configure-alert-example.png
  [Set up alerts on metrics for Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-alert-on-metric
  [audit log feature is disabled]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-audit-logs
  [diagnostic logging]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/tutorial-configure-audit#set-up-diagnostics
  [Successful alerting strategy]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/manage/monitor/response#successful-alerting-strategy
  [Azure Automation Runbooks]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/automation/automation-runbook-types
  [Microsoft's tutorial]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-alert-on-metric
  [Microsoft blog]: https://azure.microsoft.com/blog/best-practices-for-alerting-on-metrics-with-azure-database-for-mysql-monitoring/
  [scale storage to increase IOPS capacity or provision additional IOPS]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-compute-storage
  [common alert schema]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-common-schema
  [integrate with incident management systems like PagerDuty]: https://www.pagerduty.com/docs/guides/azure-integration-guide/
  [call Logic Apps]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/connectors/connectors-native-webhook
  [execute Azure Automation runbooks]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/automation/automation-webhooks
  [Azure CLI reference commands for Azure Monitor]: https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/azure-cli-reference-for-monitor
  [Monitor and scale an Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server using Azure CLI]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/scripts/sample-cli-monitor-and-scale
  [Tutorial: Analyze metrics for an Azure resource]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/tutorial-metrics
  [REST API Walkthrough]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/rest-api-walkthrough
  [Azure Monitor REST API Reference]: https://docs.microsoft.com/rest/api/monitor/
  [Azure Service Health]: https://azure.microsoft.com/features/service-health/
  [Configure audit logs (Azure portal)]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/tutorial-configure-audit
  [Azure Monitor best practices]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/best-practices
  [Cloud monitoring guide: Collect the right data]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/manage/monitor/data-collection
  [Configure and access audit logs in the Azure CLI]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/howto-configure-audit-logs-cli
  [Write your first query with Kusto Query Language (Microsoft Learn)]: https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/modules/write-first-query-kusto-query-language/
  [Azure Monitor Logs Overview]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/logs/data-platform-logs
  [Application Monitoring for Azure App Service Overview]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/app/azure-web-apps
  [Configure and access audit logs for Azure Database for MySQL in the Azure Portal]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/howto-configure-audit-logs-portal
  [Kusto Query Language (KQL)]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/query/
  [SQL Kusto cheat sheet]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/query/sqlcheatsheet
  [Get started with log queries in Azure Monitor]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/log-query/get-started-queries
  [Monitor Azure Database for MySQL using Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM)]:
    https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-database-for-mysql-blog/monitor-azure-database-for-mysql-using-percona-monito%20ring-and/ba-p/2568545
  [firewall rules]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/concepts-firewall-rules
  [restrict public access]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/howto-deny-public-network-access
  [46]: media/firewall-rule-diagram.png
  [Manage firewall rules for Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server using the Azure portal]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-manage-firewall-portal
  [Manage firewall rules for Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server using Azure CLI]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-manage-firewall-cli
  [ARM Reference for Firewall Rules]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/templates/microsoft.dbformysql/flexibleservers/firewallrules?tabs=json
  [Create and manage Azure Database for MySQL firewall rules by using the Azure portal]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/howto-manage-firewall-using-portal
  [Create and manage Azure Database for MySQL firewall rules by using the Azure CLI]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/howto-manage-firewall-using-cli
  [47]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/templates/microsoft.dbformysql/servers/firewallrules?tabs=json
  [basic Azure Networking considerations]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/concepts-data-access-and-security-vnet
  [RFC 1918.]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1918
  [Introduction to Azure]: ../02_IntroToMySQL/02_02_Introduction_to_Azure.md
  [Virtual Network Peering]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-peering-overview
  [Azure VPN Gateway]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/vpn-gateway/vpn-gateway-about-vpngateways
  [Azure ExpressRoute]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/expressroute/expressroute-introduction
  [Introduction to Azure Virtual Networks]: https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/modules/introduction-to-azure-virtual-networks/
  [Portal]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/quick-create-portal
  [PowerShell]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/quick-create-powershell
  [CLI]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/quick-create-cli
  [ARM Template]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/quick-create-template
  [Private DNS zone overview]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/dns/private-dns-overview
  [Azure Portal]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-manage-virtual-network-portal
  [48]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-manage-virtual-network-cli
  [49]: ../02_IntroToMySQL/02_03_Azure_MySQL.md
  [hub and spoke configuration.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/hybrid-networking/hub-spoke?tabs=cli
  [Security and Compliance document]: 03_MySQL_Security_Compliance.md
  [General Azure Networking Best Practices]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/migrate/azure-best-practices/migrate-best-practices-networking
  [modify the applications]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/howto-configure-ssl
  [50]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-connect-tls-ssl
  [Single Server]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/concepts-ssl-connection-security
  [Microsoft Sentinel]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/sentinel/overview
  [Microsoft Purview]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/purview/overview
  [security baseline]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/security-baseline
  [Selenium]: https://www.selenium.dev/
  [Selenium Grid]: https://www.selenium.dev/documentation/grid/
  [Selenium IDE]: https://www.selenium.dev/selenium-ide/
  [Selenium tests in Azure DevOps.]: https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/testingspot-blog/continuous-testing-with-selenium-and-azure-devops/ba-p/3143366
  [This image demonstrates screenshots from a Selenium test in Azure DevOps.]:
    ./media/selenium-test-azure-devops.png "Selenium test screenshots"
  [51]: media/azure-traffic-manager-blue-green.png
  [Deployment Center example]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/deploy-github-actions?tabs=applevel
  [Azure Traffic Manager example]: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/blue-green-deployments-using-azure-traffic-manager/
  [Application Gateway example]: https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/apps-on-azure-blog/upgrading-aks-version-with-blue-green-deployment-i/ba-p/2527145
  [Event Hub throughput by tier]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-quotas#basic-vs-standard-vs-premium-vs-dedicated-tiers
  [Apache JMeter]: https://jmeter.apache.org/
  [This image demonstrates how to perform a load test at scale using CI/CD, JMeter, and ACI.]:
    ./media/load-testing-pipeline-jmeter.png "Load testing at scale"
  [Azure Load Testing Preview.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/load-testing/quickstart-create-and-run-load-test
  [Grafana K6]: https://k6.io/
  [Azure DevOps Pipelines]: https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-devops/load-testing-with-azure-devops-and-k6/m-p/2489134
  [This image demonstrates container logs in the AKS cluster's Log Analytics workspace.]:
    ./media/container-logs-in-log-analytics.png
    "AKS cluster container logs"
  [This image demonstrates the maximum CPU usage of the AKS cluster's nodes, a feature provided by metrics from AKS.]:
    ./media/metric-visualization.png "Maximum CPU usage graph"
  [Supported languages for Azure App Insights]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/app/platforms
  [Monitoring Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) with Azure Monitor]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/monitor-aks#scope-of-the-scenario
  [This image demonstrates a dashboard in Grafana showing CPU usage for a pod.]:
    ./media/grafana-dashboard.png "Pod CPU usage in Grafana"
  [Using Azure Kubernetes Service with Grafana and Prometheus]: https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/apps-on-azure-blog/using-azure-kubernetes-service-with-grafana-and-prometheus/ba-p/3020459
  [Prometheus Overview]: https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview
  [What is Grafana OSS]: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/introduction/oss-details/
  [Store Prometheus Metrics with Thanos, Azure Storage and Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)]:
    https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/apps-on-azure-blog/store-prometheus-metrics-with-thanos-azure-storage-and-azure/ba-p/3067849
  [What are Azure Pipelines?]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/get-started/what-is-azure-pipelines?view=azure-devops#:~:text=Azure%20Pipelines%20automatically%20builds%20and,ship%20it%20to%20any%20target
  [What is Azure Load Testing?]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/load-testing/overview-what-is-azure-load-testing?wt.mc_id=loadtesting_acompara4_webpage_cnl
  [read replica]: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/replication-features.html
  [Best practices for optimal performance of your Azure Database for MySQL]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/concept-performance-best-practices
  [limits]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/concepts-pricing-tiers
  [MySQL DB Metrics]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/concepts-monitoring#metrics
  [paired Azure region]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/availability-zones/cross-region-replication-azure
  [52]: media/server_parameters.png
  [53]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-server-parameters
  [Microsoft documentation]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/migrate/mysql-on-premises-azure-db/08-data-migration
  [PHPBench tool]: https://github.com/phpbench/phpbench
  [DBT2 Benchmark]: https://downloads.mysql.com/source/dbt2-0.37.50.16.tar.gz
  [SysBench Benchmark Tool]: https://downloads.mysql.com/source/sysbench-0.4.12.16.tar.gz
  [TPC-H]: https://www.tpc.org/tpch/
  [types of tests]: https://www.tpc.org/information/benchmarks5.asp
  [MySQL Performance Schema]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/howto-troubleshoot-sys-schema
  [54]: media/employee-query-full-table-scan.png
  [log_bin_trust_function_creators]: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/replication-options-binary-log.html#sysvar_log_bin_trust_function_creators
  [innodb_buffer_pool_size]: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_buffer_pool_size
  [innodb_file_per_table]: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_file_per_table
  [Use Azure portal to configure server parameters]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-configure-server-parameters-portal
  [User Azure CLI to configure server parameters]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-configure-server-parameters-cli
  [This graph demonstrates the performance benefits of thread pooling for a Flexible Server instance.]:
    ./media/thread-pooling-performance.png
    "Performance benefits of thread pooling"
  [Microsoft TechCommunity post]: https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-database-for-mysql-blog/achieve-up-to-a-50-performance-boost-in-azure-database-for-mysql/ba-p/2909691
  [55]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/concept-performance-best-practices
  [Redis cache]: https://redis.io/
  [Azure Cache for Redis]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-cache-for-redis/cache-overview
  [Enterprise, Premium, Standard, and Basic tiers]: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/cache/
  [This image demonstrates how Azure CDN POPs optimize content delivery.]:
    ./media/cdn-overview.png "Azure CDN POP static content delivery"
  [Troubleshoot connection issues to Azure Database for MySQL]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/howto-troubleshoot-common-connection-issues
  [Handle transient errors and connect efficiently to Azure Database for MySQL]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/concepts-connectivity
  [Error 1184]: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-errors/8.0/en/server-error-reference.html#error_er_new_aborting_connection
  [retire older gateways]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/concepts-connectivity-architecture#azure-database-for-mysql-gateway-ip-addresses
  [Azure Network Watcher]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/network-watcher/network-watcher-monitoring-overview
  [Error 1419]: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-errors/8.0/en/server-error-reference.html#error_er_binlog_create_routine_need_super
  [Error 1227]: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-errors/8.0/en/server-error-reference.html#error_er_specific_access_denied_error
  [56]: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/converting-tables-to-innodb.html
  [circuit breaker pattern]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/patterns/circuit-breaker
  [debugging an App Service app]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/troubleshoot-diagnostic-logs
  [Troubleshoot slow app performance issues in Azure App Service]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/troubleshoot-performance-degradation
  [Environment variables and app settings in Azure App Service]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/reference-app-settings?tabs=kudu%2Cdotnet
  [Azure App Service on Linux FAQ]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/faq-app-service-linux
  [KLogger]: https://github.com/katzgrau/KLogger
  [XDebug]: https://xdebug.org/docs/
  [Apps running on Azure App Service PHP and Container instances can take advantage of XDebug.]:
    https://azureossd.github.io/2020/05/05/debugging-php-application-on-azure-app-service-linux/
  [PHP Debug extension]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=xdebug.php-debug
  [opcode caching]: https://www.php.net/manual/en/intro.opcache.php
  [retry logic]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/patterns/retry
  [This image demonstrates the Diagnose and solve problems tab of a Flexible Server instance in the Azure portal.]:
    ./media/troubleshoot-problems-portal.png
    "Diagnose and solve problems"
  [This image demonstrates how Azure Resource Health correlates Azure service outages with the customer's provisioned resources.]:
    ./media/resource-health-integration.png
    "Azure Resource Health integration"
  [send a support request from the Azure portal.]: https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade/overview
  [57]: media/open-a-support%20ticket.png
  [Troubleshoot errors commonly encountered during or post migration to Azure Database for MySQL]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/howto-troubleshoot-common-errors
  [Troubleshoot data encryption in Azure Database for MySQL]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/howto-data-encryption-troubleshoot
  [Azure Community Support]: https://azure.microsoft.com/support/community/
  [This image demonstrates Zone-Redundant HA for MySQL Flexible Server.]:
    media/1-flexible-server-overview-zone-redundant-ha.png
    "Zone-Redundant HA"
  [This image demonstrates HA for MySQL Flexible Server in a single zone.]:
    ./media/flexible-server-overview-same-zone-ha.png
    "HA in a single zone"
  [documentation.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-high-availability
  [This image demonstrates a possible cross-region HA scenario using two virtual networks.]:
    ./media/cross-region-ha.png "Cross-region HA scenario"
  [58]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/concepts-read-replicas
  [59]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/lock-resources
  [Azure Load Balancer]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/load-balancer/load-balancer-overview
  [Application Gateway]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/application-gateway/overview
  [run on an Azure VM]: https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-database-for-mysql-blog/load-balance-read-replicas-using-proxysql-in-azure-database-for/ba-p/880042
  [This image demonstrates a possible microservices architecture with MySQL read replicas.]:
    ./media/microservices-with-replication.png
    "Possible microservices architecture"
  [60]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-read-replicas-portal
  [61]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-read-replicas-cli
  [here.]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/mysql/flexible-server/
  [Backup and restore in Azure Database for MySQL]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/concepts-backup
  [Some regions]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/concepts-pricing-tiers#storage
  [Perform post-restore tasks]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/concepts-backup#perform-post-restore-tasks
  [Microsoft documentation.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-backup-restore
  [Point-in-time restore with Azure Portal]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-restore-server-portal
  [Point-in-time restore with CLI]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-restore-server-cli
  [Azure CLI samples for Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/sample-scripts-azure-cli
  [this]: https://azure.microsoft.com/global-infrastructure/data-residency/#select-geography
  [62]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/concepts-connectivity-architecture
  [Manage scheduled maintenance settings using the Azure Portal (Flexible Server)]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-maintenance-portal
  [View service health notifications in the Azure Portal]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-health/service-notifications
  [Configure resource health alerts using Azure Portal]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-health/resource-health-alert-monitor-guide
  [planned maintenance notification]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/concepts-monitoring#planned-maintenance-notification
  [Azure Well-Architected Framework]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/framework/
  [Azure Well-Architected Review utility.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/assessments/?id=azure-architecture-review&mode=pre-assessment
  [regions that support Availability Zones.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/availability-zones/az-region
  [ProxySQL on a VM]: https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-database-for-mysql-blog/setting-up-proxysql-as-a-connection-pool-for-azure-database-for/ba-p/2589350
  [Container insights,]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-overview
  [list of per-service retry recommendations.]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/best-practices/retry-service-specific
  [sysbench.]: https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-database-for-mysql-blog/benchmarking-azure-database-for-mysql-flexible-server-using/ba-p/3108799
  [Azure Architecture center]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/
  [Digital marketing using Azure Database for MySQL:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/solution-ideas/articles/digital-marketing-using-azure-database-for-mysql
  [Finance management apps using Azure Database for MySQL:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/solution-ideas/articles/finance-management-apps-using-azure-database-for-mysql
  [Power BI]: https://docs.microsoft.com/power-bi/fundamentals/power-bi-overview
  [Intelligent apps using Azure Database for MySQL:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/solution-ideas/articles/intelligent-apps-using-azure-database-for-mysql
  [Gaming using Azure Database for MySQL:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/solution-ideas/articles/gaming-using-azure-database-for-mysql
  [Retail and e-commerce using Azure MySQL:]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/solution-ideas/articles/retail-and-ecommerce-using-azure-database-for-mysql
  [Scalable web and mobile applications using Azure Database for MySQL:]:
    https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/solution-ideas/articles/scalable-web-and-mobile-applications-using-azure-database-for-mysql
  [Microsoft Customer Stories portal]: https://customers.microsoft.com/search?sq=%22Azure%20Database%20for%20MySQL%22&ff=&p=2&so=story_publish_date%20desc
  [63]: media/minecraft-logo.png
  [This image demonstrates the Minecraft Realms service running in Azure, accessing Azure Database for MySQL.]:
    ./media/realms-migration.png "Minecraft Realms migration to Azure"
  [64]: media/linked-brain-logo.png
  [Linked Brain]: https://customers.microsoft.com/en-us/story/1418505453083122843-linked-brain-en-japan
  [65]: media/t-systems-logo.png
  [T-Systems]: https://customers.microsoft.com/en-us/story/724200-deutsche-telekom-telecommunications-azure
  [66]: media/children-mercy-logo.png
  [Children's Mercy Kansas City]: https://customers.microsoft.com/en-us/story/860516-childrens-mercy-health-provider-azure
  [67]: media/geekwire.png
  [GeekWire]: https://customers.microsoft.com/en-us/story/geekwire
  [one from WordPress]: https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/apps/WordPress.WordPress?tab=Overview
  [this offering]: https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/apps/bitnami.moodle-frontend-manageddb-multitier?tab=Overview
  [68]: https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/apps/bitnami.magento-chart?tab=Overview
  [Review homepage]: https://aka.ms/mysql
  [69]: http://aka.ms/mysqldocs
  [Get started for free with an Azure free account!]: https://azure.microft.com/free/mysql
  [Tutorial]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/how-to-deploy-on-azure-free-account
  [Azure Pricing Calculator, TCO Calculator]: https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing
  [Migrate your workloads to Azure DB for MySQL]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/migrate
  [What's new in Flexible Server?]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/whats-new
  [Tech Community Blog]: https://aka.ms/azure-db-mysql-blog
  [Twitter]: https://twitter.com/AzureDBMySQL
  [LinkedIn]: https://www.linkedin.com/company/azure-database-for-mysql/
  [search for a Microsoft Partner]: https://www.microsoft.com/solution-providers/home
  [Microsoft MVP]: https://mvp.microsoft.com/MvpSearch
  [Microsoft Community Forum]: https://docs.microsoft.com/answers/topics/azure-database-mysql.html
  [StackOverflow for Azure MySQL]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/azure-database-mysql
  [Azure Facebook Group]: https://www.facebook.com/groups/MsftAzure
  [LinkedIn Azure Group]: https://www.linkedin.com/groups/2733961/
  [LinkedIn Azure Developers Group]: https://www.linkedin.com/groups/1731317/
