# Application continuous integration and deployment

Microsoft recommends automating build and deployment processes to minimize application errors and quickly release features. This practice is often termed CI/CD:
  
- **Continuous Integration (CI):** CI tools automatically build, test, and merge code that developers push to version control systems. CI pipelines run code analysis tools to enforce style guidelines, unit tests, integration tests, and more. By constantly merging developers' contributions to a shared branch, CI tools improve developer efficiency.

- **Continuous Delivery (CD):** Continuous delivery tools package applications in a format that operations teams can deploy to production. This typically involves pushing a container image to a container registry.
  - **Continuous Deployment (CD):** Continuous deployment automates the production deployment process; it does not require an operations team to intervene. Continuous deployment processes extend continuous delivery.

Implementing build and deployment automation means that development teams can rapidly serve small features and fixes in production, rather than waiting for one large, error-prone manual deployment.

## Local Git

There are a plethora of CI/CD tools available for local Git repositories, such as Jenkins, an open-source project that supports over 1,500 extensions and offers advanced features, such as parallel test execution.

Azure App Service supports automated deployments from local Git repositories: developers simply need to push their code to an App Service remote repository. Consult the [Introduction to the guide sample application] for a step-by-step App Service deployment from a local Git repository.

## App Service Deployment Center and Slots

### Deployment Slots

App Service instances in the Standard tier or higher support *deployment slots*, which are separate instances of an app accessible on different host names. Developers can validate app updates in a staging slot before swapping the updates into the production slot. After swapping an app from a staging slot to the production slot, the staging slot holds the old production app, allowing teams to quickly roll back unsuccessful changes. Swapping a slot has no downtime.

### Deployment Center

The Deployment Center provides a summary of the deployment methods for an App Service instance. It also allows developers to quickly create CI/CD pipelines for code stored in version control systems. App Service executes pipelines on multiple targets, including GitHub Actions, Azure Pipelines, and built-in Kudu.

## GitHub Actions

GitHub Actions runs automated pipelines after an event occurs, such as when a developer pushes to a repository branch or opens a PR. As GitHub Actions integrates with GitHub repositories, pipelines can respond to other repository events, such as when a new issue is opened.

A GitHub repository can have multiple *workflows* (pipelines) written in [YAML.](yaml.org) At their most basic level, workflows consist of *actions* that perform some basic task, such as initializing a build tool. Teams can run GitHub Actions on GitHub runners or self-hosted runners for greater flexibility.

## Azure DevOps

## Infrastructure as Code (IaC)
